---
author: glen-allsopp
title: "AI Apps Reports & Workflows Every Marketer Should Steal | Glen Allsopp (Ahrefs Detailed)"
video_id: XSLoLghiW74
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XSLoLghiW74
published: 2026-05-26
collected_on: 2026-06-19
---

Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Ahrefs podcast. Today we're talking about AI in marketing because this is the hottest topic out there. If you look on LinkedIn, everyone is sending space rockets with Mars to to Mars with their cloud code, but how much of it is real, how much of it is hype? Today my guest is Glen Allsopp, our own head of marketing strategy and research at Ahrefs. And I actually feel that we need to squeeze AI somewhere in Glen's title now because his full-time job is actually playing with AI, doing all sorts of cool things, and then sharing them those cool things with our audience. Glen, welcome to the podcast. >> Tim, thank you for having me. >> Awesome. So, first of all, I want to address the actual narrative that all the marketers should be using AI, otherwise they would be left behind. What do you have to say about this? >> Yeah, I think there's I think there's a lot of hype, right? Especially if you go on social media, people will be telling you, "Oh, I've you know, I I don't need an SEO agency anymore. Cloud Cloud handles everything, my link building, my keyword research." I I think there's a lot of hype, but also there's a lot of real-world use cases. So, I know I know for me personally, there's a lot of tools I've built that I just I I would never have imagined building and having that have made my life easier. There's a lot of automations now that I have in my work. Um But but there's there's definitely a split. There's still things that I like to do manually, and I still think you need You need to know what you're looking for in the first place. You need to know what is actually useful. You need to understand which responses are actually good and not good that you're getting back from these kind of agents. But So, I think it's overhyped mostly on social media, but there is absolutely no doubt that there there are things I'm doing now that have just made my work so much easier. >> Well, I I used to be a big skeptic of AI and its capabilities. You've been around together with me on our internal company Slack, so you've seen it all. But, in the past past year, past 6 to 8 months, everything has changed. I'm a huge advocate of AI, and uh last week we had Ahrefs evolve conference in Singapore, and I asked the audience how many of them have wiped coded something with AI, and only maybe 10% of people have raised their hands. So, while on LinkedIn everyone is overhyping it, and it feels that you're so behind, actually we're like so much ahead, and uh yeah, a lot of people haven't tried anything at all, which is why I'm excited to talk to you about this today and show some like real legit use cases, some of the tools uh some of the tools and workflows that we're using actually at Ahrefs, because actually I think everyone on our marketing team uses AI in one way or another and building apps to to simplify their workflows, and we're going to show uh some of these apps today. Okay, uh let's show some of the cool stuff, uh and then maybe we can also mention some other benefits of using Agent A over other systems. >> All right, so let me open up Let me open up an example here. Okay, so inside Ahrefs, one of the things I love is that we have you can create keyword lists. So, here I am in my account. I have a keyword list around real estate, lots of different terms here, and I can do various things. I can add it to rank tracker, and use different use this for various things inside Ahrefs. What I really love, and this is a skill I created for anyone who uses this tool, is that I've asked for certain insights from this keyword list. So, I want to know all of the forums, so let's just say these are really important to me in the in the world of real estate. I want to know what is actually ranking community-wise in Google for all of these terms. So, we are not in the real estate industry personally, but um just to get an idea of what is going on. So, very quickly, I've asked a simple prompt. I haven't done anything else. I I answered a few clarifying >> read the prompt? Can you read the prompt? >> Yeah, it was just very simple. It was literally based on the skill. So, I went to the skills, clicked on the skill, and it was it literally just, you know, started this. Find community themes and questions forums for my keyword group. You can actually type this in without starting a skill and it will go through the same process. So, what is the keyword list that you care about? What do you want to get out of it? In my case, I want potential content ideas and I want potential terms I can be tracking my AI visibility for. Um So, then what I've asked it to do is go and look at all of the URLs that rank for all of these keywords. What are the forums? So, what is Reddit ranking for? What kind of threads, what kind of discussions are people having, and are there any other forums that are also ranking well? So, I did nothing else. The agent went and, you know, tested and looked at all of that data, and then it instantly, not instantly, sorry, but very quickly, gave me the data that I was looking for. So, out of all of those keywords that I'm monitoring in Ahrefs, I now can instantly see all of these different subreddits and discussions. So, it might be the subreddit itself or all of the topics that are actually going on. I can go to all of those. We can see the estimated traffic for those actual discussions as well and all of the different subreddits that they are in. >> Can you briefly explain what happens under the hood? Because basically it goes to your keyword list, it checks the top ranking pages for each of the keywords, and then it looks for specific kinds of websites, right? >> Exactly. >> this workflow you explained it in a skill that is now public for all users for Agent A. Because otherwise, like what I could do is I could explain it step by step to an agent, and it would still accomplish this. So, basically a skill is all your explanations built in, so people don't have to uh uh spend time explaining what they need to do, right? >> Yeah, exactly. >> How is this skill called? What is the name? If people want to try this skill with their own keyword list, what is the name? >> Yeah, let me just make sure. It should be community Yeah, community content research. >> Community content research. Okay. >> So, what I what you can ask for with this data, so the skill is already set up. Go and check Reddit. If Reddit exists, go and show us all the top subreddits. So, you know, if you're doing some kind of market research, you want to know, okay, I know about real estate on Reddit, but oh, mortgages is also ranking or real estate discussions are ranking pretty well in Google from specific, you know, locations and specific states. Zillow Gone Wild, there's a homeowners, there's an RE real estate bubble um subreddits. So, it just kind of highlights those as well and groups those for you. And that's something that AI AI is really is really good at. And then, I didn't just want Reddit. I also said, "Hey, but there's other forums showing up. Show me those as well." So, it specifically looks for URLs with showthread.php or thread or um you know, specific kind of forum URLs that would typically show up in across different um forum CMSs and and platforms. So, we can see Quora is ranking for different phrases. And other here Bigger Pockets is only one thread that was >> And and what's the goal? What's the goal of doing this community threads research? >> So, there's kind of three things. One, I want I want content ideas. So, maybe people are really discussing and or asking questions about something I haven't written an article about and maybe I have a lot of experience in that topic. Um the other one is we can see the kind of natural language that people are using to ask questions. That can be really great for AI um AI visibility. So, getting ideas for prompts to track. You know, where do you show up? If this is kind of a hot topic that keeps coming up over and over again, how do I show up in chat GPT or AI mode or something like that for this query? And then the other obvious option is that you can just get involved in these communities, right? I won't go into that in too much detail, but you know, you can be a member of these forums and discussions and and be a useful kind of member of those communities as well. >> But what is currently the output of the skill? Because I see it lists the the the community threads. What is like What is the end goal? What are you trying to get? What Once the skill runs, the output is What? Just list of community threads? >> Yeah, so we got all of the Reddit discussions, then it will show the subreddits, then it will show other forums that weren't Reddit that you might want to get involved in. And then we've got prompt tracking suggestions. So, it will take the kind queries and discussions that people were actually, you know, talking about and it will help you try and figure out, you know, which website has the most accurate home value estimate. Something that was found in the forum discussions and then we've turned those into actual potential prompts. What are the best websites to compare mortgage rates and, you know, is Rocket Mortgage a good option? Who's the best, you know, lender and so on like that. So, I I asked for both outputs. So, I asked for prompt visibility suggestions and I asked for content suggestions. So, a lot of the threads and it will tell you, "Hey, here's all the threads that made me think this might be a good article idea. Here's the actual thread discussions. Um you know, are prefab tiny houses on Amazon real? We bought one to find out." Like I kind of like some of the headlines we've got here. The best website for Um a good suggestion was that a lot of people are just focused on general terms and they're not actually focused on Los Angeles and San Diego and whatever it may be. So, you know, there's some content ideas there. >> Yeah, so the reason why I asked you about output because I saw huge walls of text that agent has generated for you and this doesn't look like productivity or efficiency if you need to read like long reports that agent is giving to you and like why not have the agent take the next step and actually okay so we were looking for prompts to track give me prompts to track we were looking for content ideas give me the actual content ideas so you actually pushed it to to the next step and it actually gives you the recommendations of prompts you could be tracking and the content ideas so yeah that makes a lot of sense let's go to the next thing that you have to show us >> okay so let's go over to an app cuz I just kind of so we have a lot of skills we have a lot of different angles that people can you know research ideas but the cool thing is that we're also building internal apps that we can share with people so I won't I won't talk about this too much but I for the last six months or so I have been using a personal tool not with Agent A but I've now moved it to Agent A with that basically I call it my marketing inbox so even though this [clears throat] looks like a an application this is actually all built inside Taito and I can send this to other people we can give this to other users so I I have a bit of a problem where I keep having all of these ideas for blog posts and social media posts and projects that I need to update and I don't want to put that in linear I don't want to you know these are just ideas that I'm still thinking about maybe they're not ready for other people to action and and do something with so this is just kind of my brain dump of all the things I have to do and all of the ideas I have and and whether I should kind of come back to them at some point so this is just my simple application you add new items so hey we've updated the detailed SEO extension I need to update the change log where are the world's top blogs linking to how many top cited chat GPT domains get zero traffic just things that I'm thinking about that might make a good social post or good blog post or a kind of you know, unique tool or project or something like that. And just a lot of cool features that I love. So, if I'm not ready to do this yet, maybe we haven't updated the extension recently, I can snooze this. So, 7 days, 30 days, it's all explained in the tooltip here. Um I can I can snooze it until next Monday or the 1st of next month. Uh I can mark it as done because I've done it already. And then then that will disappear. So, it's kind of like an email inbox, but all of the marketing ideas you have, all of the things you want to get done, and then you items can automatically snooze. So, if I if I said this is something I do every 2 weeks, right? I'm looking at Ahrefs AI visibility and ChatGPT, I'm looking at new domains, new URLs. When I've done that, I click done, this is gone from my inbox, and automatically in 2 weeks, because I've said it's a fortnightly thing, it's going to come back here for me to do again. I don't forget this task. >> this is uh your personal task manager, essentially. >> Yeah. >> And the natural question that people would be asking is uh why did you have to kind of build a web code it from scratch? Uh aren't there any existing solutions that would do uh what you're doing here? >> Not not that I know of for my specific use cases. So, um we have Linear, right? I was a very big user of Trello. Um there are there are ways for Trello items to kind of come back to your top of your list at a certain amount of time, but um you know, they have this kind of Kanban board style of everything's kind of thin, and it's not so easy to see all of the items. So, um this was really something after using quite a few tools that I I really wanted for myself. So, >> Yeah, I think the main takeaway here is that you custom-tailored it for yourself, because yeah, I'm sure there are plenty of tools that can do this and that and that come close to what you're trying to achieve here, but this is essentially what like how you see your work and what is convenient to you. And the beauty here, uh because it is hosted with Agent A or you also say let I do which is our kind of harness for Agent A. So we we are using these words interchangeably right now. The beauty is that when you copy this application to your own workspace and we have an applications library, when you copy it to your own workspace you can customize it. So this is something that wasn't possible earlier. So when you sign up for Trello, you're using Trello. Yeah, they give you some customization options so you can use this feature or you can toggle the columns in a spreadsheet or whatnot, but you cannot fully rework the app to your own liking. And the reason why I'm saying this is because the the actual reason why you build this app because you had a very specific workflow in your head that you wanted like the way you wanted this app to work was very specific and you build it in this specific way. And the thing is other people might not work how you work, but they might like the underlying idea. They might see some things that they like about your app, but they don't like others. And now they can just tell Agent A, they can tell Let I do, "Can you remove this column or can you change this to this?" And you can customize your app and your app would work the way you want it. So this is something that wasn't previously possible. And this is the idea behind our collection of applications that we're sharing with our customer base. So any application, it's not meant to be copied exactly and be used exactly because then it's not any different from any other piece of software, but the actual idea that you can then customize it, you can I don't know delete half of the features and add another half of the features which are your own, it makes all the difference. >> Yeah, so just a super quick example on that. So I I have the settings page where you you can customize a lot of things. So maybe you don't write blog posts, you want to change the colors, or you wanted to have different snooze options. These are all things that a standard SaaS application would offer for you, right? They do have these kind of customizations, but if we go back to the dashboard here, I can add links and descriptions and things like that. I generally only need one or two links, you know, just to remember a landing page, or remember, you know, someone said something about it. If you wanted to have 10 links, right? That isn't an option. That isn't something on my settings page. You could literally just say to Agent A, "Hey, I want to be able to save 10 links for every task that I'm working on, or I don't need the type option." And it can literally just take those things away, and I don't want to overhype it. We're probably, you know, a minute a minute later you can have the those things added or taken away. >> Let's also take to talk a little bit about how you built this application in the first place, because this, again, like I said, at HFS Wall Singapore, I asked how many people, like we had an audience of over 200 marketers, and I asked them how many of them have coded something. Only 10% raised their hand. So people either don't realize how easy it is to build those kinds of tools, or they just don't have access, because some people work at organizations who are slow to sign up for these kinds of services, and people don't want to sign up at their own expense, so they never tried those tools. So people can actually they they don't even need to copy your application. If they don't like anything about it, they have an idea of their own personal task manager in mind, they can explain this task manager to Agent A in plain language, and it would build it for you. And then, if you don't like something about it, again in in plain English language, you just explain remove this button or this button should should work another way. And it just works. So, the reason why why am I I'm explaining such a simple straightforward thing is because like it is simple straightforward for us who have been using AI to code applications for quite a while, but a lot of people haven't tried it and they don't realize how easy it is. >> Yeah, so unfortunately, I don't have the actual chat, but I think I kind of have a perfect example of that. So, one request I do a lot of link research. So, I want to know just in Nick's example, we've got Monday, ClickUp, Smartsheet, Pipedrive, and you know, I didn't even have to write the domain names there and something again nice for agents and AI to kind of understand these days is that I wanted to look at all of the links to all of these different websites, but and I just wanted a summary. So, is there any kind of overlap? Did Monday write something and ClickUp also wrote something and Smartsheet wrote something that is getting a lot of links that I don't have on my website? And this is just kind of hey, go and give me that kind of analysis. So, you can have that in the chat here. That was my simple request. I didn't use a skill. I just gave it the details that I wanted. It went out and got that data. So, we found oh, they're they're all they all have listicles that are getting links. Some of them have Smartsheet and Monday have templates and free downloads. So, I could Do I have that open? I don't think I do. So, I could do that in the standard Ahrefs interface where I just go and look at the links. I think I have it open here. Yeah, so I could do this in Ahrefs manually, right? So, here's the backlinks or the best pages on monday.com that have the most links. I could go and change all of my filters and you know, we have the best database I think on the planet for this. So, you can create all these filters and find all of the great links, but it is a bit of a time-consuming process and that's only for one website. So, I've asked the agent to literally go and do that for four websites at once and find me the commonality. So, it's got me all of these takeaways, given me all of this advice. Now, what I What would be really cool is if I don't have to start this chat every time. So, I don't want to do this new discussion every time. And again, unfortunately, I don't have the the actual chat where I started this, but it was literally a 2 to 3-minute process where I said, "Please turn this into an application. This is what I want. These are the kind of results that I want." Um and can you do that? And then I literally have this application. I can open it on the side here. So, and it you can see I was doing this at the same time. So, now I don't need to start a new chat every time. I literally just put in a list of domains, and I'm going to do this live because it is really, really quick and really impressive. Um and you can see all of these. So, here's just an example of a past analysis. So, all of the domains that I was checking, here's the blog post that picked up the most links across all of those websites, here's the kind of product pages that picked up the most links that I can get inspiration from. Um so, just an example, Tim, do you have any websites you want me to try this on? >> Uh no. I I'm out of ideas. >> All right. I don't I don't know. >> I would also go to project management tools like Monday, ClickUp, and and everything. >> All right. Let Let's just do Airtable cuz I haven't done that one yet. Uh let's do Pipedrive again. Um Hootsuite. Just totally like three different kind of styles of company. So, click run analysis. It's getting the data from Airtable. It's checking what kind of pages they are. Um it's getting this straight from Ahrefs data. It's already done that, right? I could not have done that that quickly for um going through the standard uh Ahrefs UI. Doing it for Hootsuite now. And then it's going to um finding what kind of um yeah, what kind of pages are actually getting links from those websites. It's filtering out home pages. And then this is all in real time. So, we've got the blog posts that are getting the most links across all three websites. So, it has It understands the structure based on the title tags or based on the URL structure. It understands what is actually a blog post, what is actually a product page. Um, so for example, it understands this is kind of more of a landing page from Hootsuite with 3,000 referring domains, pricing pages. Um, yeah, API documentation and things like that. And then blog posts, we can see actual blog.hootsuite and so on, different domains um, showing up there. All of the Well, they're really dominating with their results. Um, Airtable, Pipedrive, the actual blog, an actual Pipedrive cold calling um, guide. So, how long did that take? 20, 30 seconds? And that's just, you know, you have an idea, you have a chat inspiration for something you want to get, and you literally say, "Please turn that into a a tool." And by the way, the cost of this was less than 1 cent. >> Wow. That's impressive. That's impressive. I already mentioned that a lot of people have never used any AI tools and have never wiped code with anything, but some people, or maybe even a lot of people watching this, would have experience with uh, Claude code, with lovable, uh, with Cursor, and other tools. So, uh, we are, like, I I am quite an active user of Claude code. I published quite a few LinkedIn posts saying that 90% of my work as a CMO goes through Claude code. I'm using it for all sorts of things, for creating content, for creating apps, uh, even as a knowledge base for uh, some of the meeting recordings and such. Uh, but right now, Dmitry, our CEO, is pushing us to be dog fooding more and move everything we have to Agent A. Uh, and it actually makes sense. Uh, one of the reasons is, uh, like you said, you used a cheap model. And for example, if you're if at your company, you're only using uh, Claude code, you're locked to Anthropic models, some of which can be pretty expensive. Uh in Let's Do in Agent A, uh you have a selection of different models. One of them is actually free to a point. We self-hosted. This is our experiment. Another cool thing about Agent A is that it already runs in the cloud. So, how you were showing in the beginning, a workspace is essentially your own VPS server. So, everything you build is running in the cloud, which is also very convenient because I remember when I was using Cloud Code and I was in a taxi and I'm in the process of I'm coding something and it is working and I cannot close my laptop because then the connection would break and it would start working. This is not the case with Let's Do. You can just tell it to work on something, close your laptop, and it would be working on it in the cloud. Anything else I've missed in regards to how Let's Do, how Agent A is more convenient than using Cloud Code. >> Yeah, so the uh the user management is a big one for me. So, I could literally give anyone access to this tool and this dashboard and they can go and log in and use that. Another cool thing we're working on, which I I really want to have in place, is backups, right? So, you have all this data and all these chats in one place. You want to make sure you still have these reports and you still have these applications. You don't You don't actually break something or if you do, you can go back and and revert that with custom domains. We have full access to Ahrefs, of course, with all of the tools that we have. And then the big thing for me is there's kind of two parts of it. First of all, part of my job is training training this agent on all of the different marketing use cases. So, if you say, "Hey, I have an e-commerce store and I'm in this situation," this agent A should know, "Oh, this Ahrefs tool and use case will be useful for you. This is what I can do. This is what other people are doing with it." So, you know, whether you're doing keyword research or backlink analysis or using content explorer or brand radar, we've been kind of feeding it all of these use cases for this data and that you don't have to open Ahrefs, you can literally say, "I'm in this situation, what should I do? I'm I'm I'm working on backlinks or keyword research." And it'll give you all of these options and all of these ideas that we've actually used in our own work, so we know they are useful and they kind of follow our processes and and our recommendations. So, it's kind of also >> I let me add for marketing use cases, I think it is actually very big that first of all, Agent A is connected to everything in Ahrefs. So, when you're using any AI system that has MCP or API, API only has so many endpoints. Only the endpoints that we add manually to API are available in API. Agent A has access to everything that we have in Ahrefs. Basically, it connects the same way that our app that our interface connects to like everything, all the data points, all the filters. In the same way, Agent A also has access to everything which goes beyond API. And the second thing, yeah, like you're saying, it has great knowledge of Ahrefs and you you just need to give it like a general task of what you want to achieve and it would know which metrics, which data, which reports it should be using to achieve what you want to achieve because when I was using Ahrefs API in Cloud Code and was trying to give it some tasks, I realized that it doesn't really understand what different metrics and what different reports mean because even if you pointed at our API documentation, it gets confused. It gets confused and sometimes it it can even like hallucinate things a little bit. Not not really hallucinate, but more misunderstand the the explanation of a metric. Maybe it wasn't explained clear enough. So, this is big and yeah, we we're literally training Agent A and you specifically literally trade training Agent A to understand how to achieve kind of general marketing tasks with Ahrefs data. And when it goes wrong, we we report it to our team and they fix it, they update all the documentation. Okay, what next? >> Um yeah, so I just in this example is that um I also asked just an example, we can connect. So, other other tools can connect to third-party services, but that's also something cool that we we're building in here. For this specific example, I said, "Hey, I like the summary. This is useful. I want to share it with other people. Can you put that in Slack?" So, literally 10 seconds later, in the relevant channel, I have a summary straight from the title straight of this actual conversation in Slack in the channel that I wanted it to be in. And this can work with Notion, it can work with Linear, it can work with airtable, um can work with GitHub. Um and that's a Yeah, I just really like being able to have this feature. And just just to go back to what we were just discussing, there's a lot of really smart people at Ahrefs. I'm allowed to say that if I'm not talking about myself. Um you know, Ryan, Louise, Mateus, SQ. Like, we've got the content team, we have developers at the marketing teams. Um they have use cases and knowledge that I don't have that they could They're also putting into this tool. So, um the blog team, they recently did a hackathon, right? With all of the different tools that they wanted to build and put inside Agent A. Um They've They're adding those to the tool. So, I have access to Oh, here's Ryan's unique workflow for um updating outdated content or we've just published a new article, we want to make sure old articles can link to that article where relevant. Um Ryan kind of has his own process and workflow for that. We're putting all of these inside Agent A so that everyone can benefit from them. >> Yeah, that's basically another uh distinction and another difference of Agent A from those other AI systems because I haven't seen yet any AI system that would be custom custom tailored for marketing and even go deep on SEO AI visibility those kinds of things and we are actively building all those skills and applications that people can log in and use for marketing SEO and just broader marketing use cases. Okay, what what do we have next to show? An app, a skill? You prepared quite a few of them. >> Yeah, so let's let's go look at a report because we didn't we didn't do that. So um So just a quick report. I've been monitoring the social media space. I asked for a very simple request. Here's my here's my report from Brand Radar. Here's the the websites that I'm tracking the AI visibility for. The Brand Radar is incredible. We get all these responses back every single day on the on the prompts, but there's a lot of data to dive into, right? There's all you know, there's there's we're asking the same questions every single day. Do they change? Are different domains being recommended? There's a lot of answers and your brand is mentioned a lot, but you don't always know what is being said about you. So very simply I said, "What is ChatGPT saying about us in custom prompts? Here's my Brand Radar report and let me know if there's anything negative cuz generally AI tends to be pretty positive. If there is anything negative, send me the actual query. Like what date was this query on? What Like I want to go and look up what websites showed up alongside that response. Maybe there's someone saying something inaccurate or maybe there's someone I can support and help out." So went out, it got those queries. It asked me how I wanted the actual data and then I found all of these mentions. So I wasn't tracking this isn't our these aren't our company. So I'm not actually tracking too many terms there. I just had four of them 40 custom queries, but I just wanted to see the kind of data. So, I can see the kind of things that are being said, but I can also ask for a report to be generated. So, you can style these however you want. You know, they don't have to look like this, but I've got instead of me having to manually go through hundreds of AI responses with literally 800 chat GPT responses over this um certain time period here. We were uh Hootsuite in this example was mentioned in 680 of them. Around half were positive, a lot of them were neutral, and there was 35 that are negative. For me to go and find that manually is is quite a lot of work. Um but it's literally um it's literally highlighted those for me what the actual query was, what the actual negative responses were, and I can dive into those in detail. So, I can open these up. Um these are the things by the way. Um yeah, charges per account, it's more expensive than competitors. Um what kind of commonalities are showing up here? And again, because I can see the date that it was on and the specific query, I can now go and open a brand radar and see what actual URLs were sourced. Or I can ask um agent A to update this report and find me those links. So, this is just a great example of here's the data I want, create a report, and then what I asked in the original one, and this is another cool feature we haven't uh shared yet. I want to check this weekly. So, what you can do is you can also ask agent A, "One week from now, can you go and update this report? Don't replace this one, create a new one. I want to see has the sentiment changed? Are people still saying negative things? Um yeah, how how is that going over time?" And you can set that up to run every single week or or whenever you want it to um update. >> The The thing with reports, uh unlike uh applications and skills, uh we don't have a library of reports in agent A, right? And I don't remember us even discussing creating this library of reports. And I imagine the reason for that is how easy it to just ask agent A to create a report and it would create a report for you. And then again, if you need to revise this report, it can revise the report for you. So yeah, first you ask it to do something or the data that you want to pull, then you just ask it create me report that would show or that would surface something and it would generate a report for you. And if you don't think that the report is getting you what you wanted to get, you just ask it to revise it to fix it until you get what you want. So yeah, I think the the cool thing is what you said about running this um uh continuously, like every week or every month or even every day. Uh so I I I guess soon you'll be able to even ask agent A to email this report to you or to your client. Right now, as far as I know, we don't have email capab- capabilities, but we'll probably add it at some point. So yeah, the the ability to make agent run it to for you at certain periods of time is pretty cool. >> Yeah, and I I literally only had one whole part in this whole conversation, right? Before this report was created, um this all happened and then I said, "Actually, let's expand the date window." Cuz at first I was looking at a smaller time period. I said, "Can you expand the date window?" That happened. So literally, I only wrote two things in this entire chat to get this entire report. And if it's, you know, if you don't want to have it in the sidebar, you can open things up in open things up in a new tab and see them how you want. If you didn't um if these visibility gaps weren't useful, next time you you don't need to include those in the report and so on. So yeah, you can really just tweak this. >> Um >> Okay, we probably have one last thing to discuss because we're running out of time. So what would you pick for the last uh thing we want to showcase? >> So one other application that I've built and I am really it it it isn't live yet, but I've been working on this for the past few days and I'm I'm pretty excited to share this because this is another tool I love and now that I'm rebuilding it for Agent AI, I'm just finding it more and more um useful. So, this is the dashboard. Looks kind of similar to the other tool, but again, this is something you can tweak and change how you want. So, as part of my job, I'm working on different brands and and different projects. I just wanted a space where I can I I always write the first draft myself. I don't want to lose that skill and that ability, but I do use AI to help me refine something or if I miss something that was smart. So, in this dashboard here, you can give information about the brands that you're working on, so Ahrefs, detailed, whatever it may be, the default model that you want to use when you're asking questions. So, what we have over here is all of the kind of different marketing copy that you might want to create for your specific brand. And this can be really useful if you have a lot of clients in an agency or something like that. So, are we telling people about a product update? Do we need copy for social media? Are we creating a press release, email copy, whatever it may be? And then, what's really nice is that I've added a few features here that just make life much easier. So, for example, let's just say that we want to write a push notification, okay? We have an app. Um we want to update everyone about the Ahrefs app if if we had one. Um what would that look like? So, it's very smart already in that it already knows um hey, there's certain limits here. So, on iOS, if you write more than 180 characters or whatever it is, that's going to be cut off. So, you want to make sure you get the the main message there. And then, what I don't need to do now, I literally just need to type what I'm saying, what I want the push notification to say. I don't need to explain anything about Ahrefs, who we are, and what we do. And then, I can tell it how many variations of this I want it to get. And then, if you want to tweak the prompt template, you can do that here. So, you can see what is happening in the background. So, I'm already giving the AI agent my brand name, my URL, and the description about my brand. So, you don't need to go and type this every single time you're creating a new press release or creating a new email. Like, it's all built in there, and you can save these two for every single project that you're working on. So, let's just say we've just launched a new AI agent. Okay, let's get five variations. You can change the model. Let's just have that running in the background here. And then we've got those. That was all in real time. What was that? 5 10 seconds, maybe. Um Okay, I I should have said it was called Agent A, but just to give you some examples here now. Maybe I really like this one, but I want to I want to rework it. Okay, automate your SEO research, get fast actionable insights faster than ever. Okay, I like that one. I'm going to rework it. Let me save that. So, now it's in my save page, and I can come over here and do something with that later. So, this is just a real time-saver in the sense that I don't have to explain here's what push notification should look like. Here's what my website is. I literally just say, here's what we're doing, and all of that's already built in. What was the price there? Not even 1 cent. It was like, you know, hundreds of a cent of a dollar, sorry. See, I just really, really cheap to get this information. I can save it. And if there's something you don't like, maybe you want the default variation to be 20 or 25. You can literally just ask Agent A, "Tweak this page. I want to change the default." And then yeah, again, don't want to overhype, but probably 30 60 seconds later you have that feature that you that you want to have in place. >> Okay, as you're showing this application, what I'm thinking to myself is that I wouldn't use your application as it is. Basically, same thoughts as with your task manager. I wouldn't like it's not about taking your application and using it as you designed it. It's more about like, what is my workflow that I can automate inspired by your application. Maybe I can see something that you're doing and all like, "Agent A, can you take this piece? But can you change it for example, push notification? I want just this to be an application because you have a lot of different types of marketing copy. But for example, I work on announcements on X or on LinkedIn. And I want to take what you did here for push notifications and I want to modify it for my LinkedIn post or post on X." And this just gives me some ideas of how how I can build my own app and I'm not starting from scratch. I'm using you as an example. And the reason I'm saying this is because a lot of people seem to have what is called imagination gap when it when it comes to those AI tools. So they get access to one of the AI tools and they're just staring at the input field not knowing what to do with it. What do I do with it? But now that you're showing, "Okay, so if you need to write copy for something, here is where you can upload information about your brand. Here is how you later use it in the app. You can have a button and you can have drop-down for number of variations that you have." And this gives people an ideas, "Oh, there's a workflow I have to creating some kind of content that I can automate in a similar way." And yeah, then they can choose if they want to clone your app and Agent A and then tell Agent how to modify it or if they're feeling comfortable starting from scratch and just explaining the whole thing from scratch rather than editing and trimming yours. And they would get an application of their own. So yeah, so far so far, I don't see the applications in our library as something that people would be using for themselves, but I see them like as sometimes as a starting point or sometimes just simply as an idea to to kick off something of your own. >> Yeah, and I I think once you once you've started, right? Once you've built something and you've seen what is possible and it works the way you wanted it to, almost every process that you are taking on in your day-to-day life starts to be something where you think, "Oh wait, let me build a tool around that. Let me automate that in some way." And you know, I I keep the human element in everything I do. Like I said, I always write my first drafts and things like that. But um the processes and automations that you can be helped with, you just start seeing more and more opportunities. Um you just kind of um yeah, just want to keep building. >> Yeah, basically uh I feel that every marketer should essentially uh surround themselves with uh little applications, little skills, little workflows that just automate some of their kind of boring work, repetitive work. Uh so that they would just follow you You're essentially you're creating a team of AI agents and applications and skills that you then manage. If you have a complex task that requires a few things, you can break those things down into different skills, workflows, and agents, and then completing this task would be just going through the workflow from from one agent and one skill to another. So, yeah, I do feel that going forward uh everyone in marketing needs to be using AI because if you don't you would be at a pretty big disadvantage compared to people who are using it. And yeah, like I said, I was a huge skeptic of AI for quite a long time, but now as I use it myself all the time, every day, um I cannot help but uh promote it and tell other people that they should be using it. Okay, uh I think that wraps up our podcast episode for today. Uh you showed what, like four maybe things out of more than a dozen that you wanted to to share? >> Yeah, we had a uh we showed three different applications. We showed a report. We showed actual responses in a chat. So, yeah, lots of different things going on. >> Yeah, so uh if you're interested to learn more about what Glenn is building with Agent A, more use cases, more applications, uh just hit the like, leave a comment, and we would know that uh this kind of educational content is landing well. Uh that's it, Glenn. Thanks a lot for your time. Thanks a lot for showing your uh skills and applications uh with the Chef's Podcast audience. Thank you. >> Thank you for having me, Tim. I appreciate it.
