---
author: steve-toth
title: "7+ High-Level AI Search Tactics for SEO Teams"
video_id: DFdmSpXglVw
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DFdmSpXglVw
published: 2026-03-15
collected_on: 2026-06-18
---

Hey, I'm Josh Fluker. I'm head of search marketing here at AirOps, and today I'm excited to welcome Steve uh Toth. We're going to be talking about seven high-level tactics that every SEO team can start using and need to put in place today. Steve, how how are things going on your end? We've kind of already had some small talk, but go ahead and welcome everybody. >> [laughter] >> For everyone who wasn't privy to our small talk, >> Yeah, yeah. >> things are going well on my side. Um I'm Steve from SEO Notebook AI Notebook. Um I'm based in Toronto, Canada. Uh I just got back from a trip um in Pennsylvania where I was with a bunch of entrepreneurs um doing great stuff. Actually met uh two of my clients um uh there, which was cool. And uh yeah, we're just, you know, plugging away at the weekly uh newsletters, um working with uh enterprise agency clients. Um I'm also doing uh coaching for both agencies and in-house teams, and >> That's right. >> I'm just, yeah, really looking forward to uh to going through the webinar content today, and hopefully giving you guys all with um some some good takeaways and stuff that you can implement right away on your sites. >> One of the things I did want to say off the top is AirOps uh we are one of the few platforms that helps you take insights that you get and take action on it. So, we do have an LLM visibility dashboard, and once you see how your visibility rate is going, how your mention rate is doing, how your share of voice, you can then start to take action on that through through some of our workflows. So, if you are interested in helping to turn your content into a system to take advantage of those insights that you're getting, feel free to drop us a line at growth@airops.com. Put webinar in the subject line. You can also scan that QR code, and you'll be connected um to that'll help set up a live demo to where you can see some exact workflows that we're using for content refresh, some examples of capturing mentions and citations, and how uh you can use offsite plays to also implement your visibility as well, which we'll probably touch on that uh a bit here today. So, feel free to, um, drop us a line at growth@airops.com. And Steve Toth, he already introduced himself, but been working with a lot of great clients here, uh, recently, and you can find him at, I know him from SEONotebook.com. I was actually talking about his newsletter, uh, yesterday with with several folks. One of the most tactical things that that I've used, actually, Steve, you may appreciate this, I just actually used your, um, internal linking template that you shared several, uh, years ago, probably, where it's like blog one connects here, all the cross-functions down to like your money page. So, I've actually been using that on a lot of my topic clusters and, uh, rebuilding it in AirOps, we using some automation. So, um, that's really great. And then, um, we'll go ahead and mention, yes, SEO IRL, early October, is that right? >> Yeah, October 6th and 7th. Um, we're got, uh, a bunch of great speakers lined up. Um, Lily Ray, uh, Nathan Gotch, uh, Lidia and Dante, a bunch of, uh, speakers, including myself. We're have yet to update the website with the new speakers, coming soon, but the, uh, the date is going to be October 6th and 7th in the heart of downtown Toronto. >> This is Steve, we're going to dive into some high-level tactics that everybody, uh, needs to consider these days as we're building out our strategies in Q2 and beyond. So, we're going to be talking about the reasoning journey, how to structure your content, how to use query fan out and what that means, finding the prompts, brand truth framework, which is something that Steve talked about actually last time he was here, uh, which is still even more relevant than than, you know, nine or 10 months ago, and then how to repurpose your content. Some, uh, maybe, I know those all are generalities, but we're about to dive into to the exact tactics. And if you do have questions along the way, feel free to drop those in the chat. Thank you, everybody, for for being here. We're going to go ahead and dive into tactic number one, Steve. Um, optimize for the reasoning journey. So, maybe just give us a quick overview on like what you even mean by the reasoning journey before we optimize for it. >> Yeah, for sure. So, what we have to realize is that when LLMs answer questions now, they're using query fanout, which I think a lot of us in SEO already understand by now. But, effectively, you know, the LLMs work by next token prediction, and their reasoning, you know, is influenced by the fanouts that they search for. And an LLM basically, you know, wants to answer a question and then look for citations that citations, but specific passages on websites that support that reasoning journey, right? So, if if I ask for, you know, best car insurance, and it knows that I'm 18 years old, for example, which I obviously I'm not yet, but I wish I was still, but or maybe I don't, I don't know, let's see. If I was if I was a younger person, for example, it might be searching fanouts like you know, first-time drivers, comparisons, pricing, etc. And on our web pages, what we want to do is have structured passages that help give the LLM something to corroborate that reasoning journey. So, the LLM knows, you know, each of our LLMs knows us pretty intimately, right? It kind of has had all this experience, all this history built up, you know, when we tend to get responses from LLMs, we tend to get personalized results. Like, so, for example, going on a bit of a tangent here, but if I ask for best headphones, it's going to say, "The Beatles and The Smiths sound great on these headphones, Steve." That personalization journey influences its reasoning journey to get a a optimized and relevant answer for you. So, when you ask that question, the next token prediction is going to be different than somebody else. And what we're do trying to do as SEOs is understand like who our ICP is, um how those different things can be personalized. So, let's say you're a SaaS company, um things like company size, who they serve, um their specific pricing, the integrations that they want, et cetera. So, understanding how um uh the results can be personalized to your ICP, and then understanding that the content on our website is the um is the third-party, you know, citation, the third-party corroboration of the LLM's reasoning journey. So, um when it, you know, provides an answer for you, essentially knowing your ICP and, you know, how their own search journey could be personalized helps you create content that gives you a better chance to be inserted into the that citation and uh and cited as a recommendation. So, yeah, that, you know, that's kind of the the high level of that. Um and it's just for me, you know, we don't have keyword research tools the same way that we would typically have in SEO when it comes to LLMs, but for us and the the clients that we work with, it's really important for us to understand exactly who we want to target, right? So, I mentioned that client Spellbook, for example. We only want to target transactional lawyers for that content. We don't want to produce any content that is for like litigation lawyers or personal injury lawyers. We just want to be really focused on their ICP, and all of the content kind of laddering up to that, because they're they're uh the the reasoning journey that the LLM gives them is going to be personalized uh for them for their specific needs and use case. And, you know, no matter who we're working on or who I'm advising, um I always try to stress that the content on your website should be laser focused to the ICP because you want, you know, each website visitor to have a chance of becoming your customer. >> Uh so, does that mean we just throw keywords out the window or or kind of what do we what do we do with those now? >> [laughter] >> Yeah, great great question. I think we can still look to our tools as directional in terms of where the intent is going to come from. So, for example, if you have keywords in Google Search Console, there's a good chance that that people are also searching LLMs for that. I created a pretty lengthy prompt that I'll paste in the in the chat here. >> Yeah. >> About intent volume. So, intent you know, volume basically means that instead of having just search volume for one keyword, try and to get the volume for the total intent of all similar keywords. So, what I essentially did was I created a Claude project that you export your Google Search Console keywords and it semantically clusters all of the similar keywords. So, if you had let's say like best project management software, it would be like top best for teams for whatever like and all the similar content all the similar intent searches would be lumped together and then the project in that prompt that I shared will sum the total impressions for all those keywords and give you an idea about the overall intent for each bucket. So, you know, that's certainly something that we can think about when we're when we're figuring out what to optimize for. But again, I think knowing a couple of things, knowing who the ICP is, how their results can be personalized, and and and and also how the LLMs want to guide that conversation in each case, Um, kind of where we have to replace traditional keyword SEO uh with uh with how people search LLMs. And then the last thing I'll say on that as well is um understanding what deal breakers your ICP has in terms of what key criteria they're looking for and how how well the LLMs know those your answers to those deal breakers is extremely important because let's say for example a SaaS company um, you know, has a criticism on Reddit from six months ago because they didn't have, you know, a QuickBooks integration and then or let's say a FreshBooks integration maybe a little less popular um, uh accounting software. So, they didn't have a QuickBooks integration six months ago, but now they've shipped that feature and they do have that. That's no longer a deal breaker for the person who's looking for that. But if the LLM doesn't know about that or doesn't reflect that, you're still going to you're going to you're still going to be losing those customers. So, understanding um, you know, what deal breakers your ICP has and then making sure the LLMs, you know, fully reflect and understand your most recent capabilities becomes another huge part of uh of LLMs and what you want to optimize for. >> Yeah, I mean that's kind of the a different reasoning journey there for the user because that's a deal breaker for them and so they're making decisions around that. So, I love thinking about that type of content that that you're including and making sure that that the LLMs have. Tactic two, we're going to shift slightly, but we're going to talk a little bit about how to structure your content uh for retrieval. So, you need to focus on 100 to 300 tokens. Uh first, what do you mean by by tokens in that case since in case some of us are not familiar? And then secondly, why that number of tokens? >> For sure. So, um a token is essentially a part of a word. Uh you could think about like, you know, a gerund, right, being ing. So, if I say studying, right, study might be a token, ing might be a token, together those words are two tokens. So, tokens are essentially mathematical representations of stems and, you know, bits of words that the LLM has codified into, you know, numerics and and that's what's used to you know, create that next token prediction. So, essentially when we're looking at our paragraphs that we publish, we want to keep them pretty short. If a paragraph is too long, there's a good chance that the LLM's not going to extract the full paragraph. Google also has a tool called Vertex AI that one of the things that that tool can do, it's really meant for for rag testing, but one of the things that it will do is it will chunk a web page into how an LLM would essentially extract that information. And if you have a paragraph that's like, you know, 600 900 tokens long, there's a good chance that the ending of that is not going to be parsed in your answer. So, what what I like to do is create that self-contained one idea per paragraph with supporting evidence and keep my paragraphs nice and short. For those of you who followed me for a long time, you know that I have a free GPT called SnippetBrain. If you go to snippetbrain.com, you can get routed directly to that GPT. That is really focused on this type of declarative short type of question answer pairing, right? And and what we've noticed is when whenever we optimize our content with SnippetBrain, it tends to really improve the citation frequency because of how compact those it makes those paragraphs and those answers. So, you know, there's been some really good research. I've talked about it before. I think Kevin Indig did some great research around, um, you know, that first 30% of your of your page, uh, being the key area that you want to, uh, optimize for LLMs. So, within that 30% of that page, you want to really make sure that you've got, uh, very concise, uh, declaratively worded paragraphs, um, so that it's a no-brainer for the LLM to pick you up and, uh, and quickly understand what it is that you're trying to convey. >> Kind of the takeaway there, think about how many tokens it takes to to communicate your idea, and then kind of front-load the top of the page with the response that you want the LLMs to to focus on. >> Yeah, if you really want to get nerdy, I suggest, uh, going to Google Cloud and enabling the Vertex API, and then putting your content through there and see how it's chunking it, essentially. Um, we have a LLM audit that we do for clients that, um, runs their web pages through that, and it's surprising to see sometimes how much important information is essentially being ignored. So, um, yeah, I definitely recommend, uh, setting that up if you haven't. It's a little little little, uh, little scary to go inside the Google Cloud Platform sometimes. It's not exactly the most intuitive interface, but if you ask an LLM to guide you step by step, take screenshots, whatnot, um, or I think even Google AI Studio allows you to share your screen, um, yeah, you can you can figure it out. >> So, that essentially shows how Google's going to read your page? >> It's not Yeah, I mean, it's a Google product, certainly. Um, yeah, whether or not that's the exact tool that is used, um, you don't know for sure. But, if you think about like the Google Natural Language API, um, some of you might know, uh, if you go to that that website, you can paste in a piece of content, and it's going to show you all the different entities and stuff. You know, it's a it's not a far stretch to think that the Google engineers are leveraging their own their own tech that they uh, provide to developers. >> Yeah, well, that's a really great tactic. We're getting so much stuff already. So, structure your content for retrieval 100 to 300 tokens. Then on to tactic three out of seven, we are going to talk about query fan out to find kind of like maybe where you're invisible all the different prompts. I'm sorry, the different queries that it uses once you put in a user prompt. Why is this becoming even more important for for teams to think about? >> Yeah, so it kind of ties back to that point about the reasoning journey and you know, how LLMs structure their answers. So, you know, as SEOs traditionally, I would say if you look back at the last several years of SEO talking like five last 10 years, a lot of tools have come out that kind of made the SERPs all look the same. And if an LLM was you know, Googling one keyword and trying to assemble a corpus just based on page one, it wouldn't be a very diverse comprehensive answer, right? And the fact that our LLMs know so much about us, it's able to spawn that initial query into these so-called fan outs, right? So, by having the you know, one query becoming you know, potentially dozens of synthetic sub queries, the LLM is able to provide a much richer answer that's exactly you know, tailored to to the user, right? So, I in SAS, I I also teach the the CXL course on answer engine optimization if anyone's interested in that, but in that course we talk about the the typical themes of the fan outs that we see especially in software, right? So, you've kind of got some of them up on the screen, right? Comparison, if you look at things like ChatGPT, deep research, or Gemini's deep research plan, oftentimes you'll see in its thinking that it wants to compare you to other other brands, right? So, comparisons being, you know, basically when you have a good comparison page, you're serving up the LLM on a silver platter, you know, all the information about you and and to help make that help that user make a decision. So, that comparison theme is something that pops up over and over, and you see it in the fan outs. If you use Perplexity, the fan outs are actually not hidden at all. Like, Perplexity says in its steps, "I'm searching, you know, 2026 comparison of Asana versus Monday, etc." So, you can see the fan outs, you know, plain as day in Perplexity. In ChatGPT, there's some ways to kind of analyze the code to do that. So, in addition to comparisons, integrations is another big deal because again, that's a key deal breaker, right? So, if somebody uses Stripe or, you know, uses a certain CRM and they need that integration, that that could be, you know, another fan fan out of those themes. The ICP fit, who it's for, your company size, your company vertical, all that is, you know, stuff that's tailored to the ICP's, personalization, compliance you have. What kind of competitor and alternatives is similar to comparison, but and then you have compliance as well, right? So, as we know, especially in B2B, when companies are making buying decisions, it's often not just one person, but a a different committee that has to be, you know, rubber stamping that buying decision, right? So IT for example is going to have you know compliance like sock two or HIPAA compliance that could be you know yet another sort of theme of those fan outs because of how much of a deal breaker that is for certain businesses, right? So kind of going back to you know fan outs there's there are tools to to you know get those fan out queries from chat as I mentioned on Perplexity they're just plain as day right in front of you. It may be tempting to want to you know look at each serp for those fan outs and try to optimize for that. That's a little bit impractical impractical sorry, but what you want to do is you want to understand those themes, right? So take all those fan outs, take all those keywords that you're having impressions for in GSC and cluster them by themes, right? And then you know tailor your content towards those themes rather than looking you know specifically at one or two keywords. And then one other really important thing to understand is you know for engines like Perplexity or chat GPT which you know they're more popular ones Claude they look at search engines when they you know actual the search engines we use on a daily basis. So Claude uses the brave search engine chat GPT Google being being obviously being and that's where they're extracting their information from, but Google has in their own closed index specifically for AI and that is a passage ranking system not a page ranking system. So even very few people at Google would have access to that type of thing, but you ba- what you're what you're wanting to to understand is that, you know, you we don't have a window into how Google is ranking those passages, uh but we do know what makes a strong passage and that there is a correlation with ranking um for those uh for those um fan notes, but um you know, it's it SEO and AIO continues to get more difficult. Um you know, the industry has a lot of people, you know, popping in and out and you know, people like me who've been in it for 16 years have seen, you know, these changes and just continually, you know, getting challenged with this stuff. Um it's not it's not a it's not an industry that, you know, you take lightly. It's an industry that you really have to stay on the pulse and, you know, watch the webinars, read the LinkedIn posts, uh you know, read the blogs and newsletters to stay to to stay up-to-date. And um also, I would say uh you know, connecting with others, right? All these people in the chat um posting their, you know, LinkedIn profiles and all that kind of stuff. That's really where you kind of get your edge is also with community. So, going on a little bit of a tangent there, but just wanted to share that from my own experience as well. >> No, I I love that. That's why we we attend some of these webinars, we go to conferences like SEO IRL, and also do like, I know you had mentioned earlier like coaching masterminds and things like that to help help really connect. So, so love that point there, too. Um I did want to want to mention uh within prompt tracking within AIO ops, we've started a to calculate um or to look at some of the query fan outs that you're doing for for different prompts and kind of how that that feeds into it. So, someone asked about um I think they asked themes for should we think about themes for our own product or service? And I think this is a good example of like, you might not want every single header to look exactly like the query fan out, but now you know at least what your content needs to start covering. So, so then you can craft that content for that. >> Yeah, exactly. Understood. This is great, by the way. I really love this feature. And and it's really about understanding what those themes are and then, you know, creating not not overly creating, you know, dozens or hundreds of pages, but really, you know, creating the right pages, right? So, >> Yeah. >> when when we work with our our SaaS clients and our agency and in-house coaching teams, we focus on only 14 page types and then in those cases there might be like, you know, 10 comparison pages or five alternative pages or whatever. But, one of the things I think, you know, is is important is like kind of not going too broad these days with the TOFU content especially and really focusing on, you know, one smaller content strategy and then, you know, instead of just continuing to like widen your site focus, focus on the refreshes of those pages, right? So, really keep them up-to-date, you know, add to them. There's some some even some companies that I've seen who are keeping like change logs on their on their blogs and stuff like that, which would be great great for trust. So, you know, having a smaller number of pages and a and a really great process for refreshing, which I know you guys are amazing at AirOps with. >> Yeah. >> That's kind of where where I would focus and not just like an ever expansion of your of your of of your content strategy to go too wide these days. >> Somebody asked, does a fan out just tell you what content exists versus where the gap is? For my understanding, if you put a prompt in, these are the fan outs, these are what is this is the process it goes through to help answer that prompt question that you may have. >> Yeah, so if you have if you put in a prompt, right? And Google is searching that closed index, let's say say searching that on ChatGPT, it goes to Google, it search it searches all of the different um keywords in the Google index, and then it's analyzing all those passages to see which one supports its, you know, synthetic answer. >> And so then the fan out is like kind of all the things it's going through. >> Yeah, the fan out is like one query spawned into synthetic subqueries. >> Yeah. >> And then the pages that rank for those synthetic subqueries are the pages that are in contention for citations, and the clearest, most concise, and retrievable paragraphs within those ranking uh SERPs are what then gets cited. >> Which takes us back to our our token conversation just from the previous tactic there about getting that paragraph right. >> Yeah, think about like LLMs don't have unlimited budget to, you know, answer your question. They have to be efficient, right? So that's kind of the reason why they're not, you know, combing through every entire page trying to process each long paragraph. You know, there's essentially like it's looking to do to get the citations that are the least the most supportive and the least expensive for it to retrieve. >> Kind of related to that on talk tactic four, uh this one has like I've talked about it in our webinar several times. It's really become more popular, I would say, in the last like three to six months, which is to mine your questions from from customer data and not necessarily keyword tools. And I would say from from our end, this is easier to do do than ever in a lot of ways. There's a lot like with MCPs and things like that to where you can connect all of your um like Gong calls, Intercom, support tickets, Zendesk, that type of things. Why is this becoming even more important for for teams to consider? >> Yeah, it's so important. Um well, it's it the main reason is because we just don't have the visibility into what people are searching on these LLMs. And even with Google, they're not really making a distinction between what is, you know, an AI mode search versus a regular search. There is no distinction in Google Search Console currently between, you know, AI mode and Google regular Google search. ChatGPT not exactly concerned with providing ChatGPT console for SEOs at these days. They're just trying to keep up with all that free usage and you know, evolving their their their product. So, we have a lack of visibility into um what actual keywords are being searched in these tools. So, what's the next best thing? Let's look to what your customers are asking, right? So, especially if you're in B2B, taking those demo calls where there's these common questions. We used to say talk to your sales folks, but these days, you know, you have the transcript. You can easily analyze that. I also noticed in the in the comments, Rita mentioned Quora and Reddit. I think, you know, Quora, Reddit, G2, Trustpilot, all these user-generated content platforms also offer a great way to uh mine questions that people are asking. So, let's say you're a product that just offers a free trial and you don't have um you know, Gong calls and things like that. You you might you might want to ground your prompts in the conversations that are taking place with your brand. So, when we create prompts to track for our clients, you know, we cite the the landscape of the conversations and you know, show the frequency in which certain questions are being asked and tie back those prompts to to real conversations that are happening. So, the other ones that you mentioned here, interestingly, Zendesk and Intercom. So, thinking about, you know, your help center, right? And how people ask those questions can also yield a lot of stuff that is really valuable to track. So, kind of, you know, a few different buckets, right? We can look at, for example, the intent volume in Google Search Console and kind of infer that people would be asking those to LLMs. You can mine your customer data through the transcripts and extract questions, you know, using AI. And then you can look at your help center documentation. And then you can look at the user-generated content that's on the web as well. So, it Keyword research for LLMs is more like understanding the what the what's in the customer's mind and really, you know, needing to have that relationship with your client where they're okay with giving you that data. They're okay with making that connection. And you know, as as an agency owner myself and what I tell my team is just, you know, expressing that things have changed. We don't have the tools that we used to have to really understand how that journey is changing. And and getting access to that that stuff. And obviously the public stuff is easy, but sometimes, you know, it requires a conversation to get access to the Gong calls and stuff like that. But it's more important than ever due to the lack of visibility that we have with the, you know, tools that at present in 2026. >> Two things there. If if you are an in-house team, connecting some of these tools to your MCP or to Claude to to mine those is really useful. And then we have an Ahrefs MCP where you can actually like flip some of those into prompts that you start tracking with with our grid. So, that's one thing. But then number two, we haven't even talked about here on the on the bullet point here. Google auto complete is still under used as a question source. Google is still the largest search engine by far. Lots of information in there that you can you can use. So, if you're like, I don't have access to all of that, Google auto complete gives you some ideas that you may not have thought about as you're putting in a keyword as you're putting in a prompt. So, that's also another good good thing to use, too. >> I I'd say people also ask as well is another one. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So, um anything that uh the Google auto complete is interesting uh because um it uh is it it it will change as trends change. So, you you know, as as news comes into the fore, um auto completes will sort of follow those news trends. And uh and the other thing to note about auto complete is that it's also based on Google having a good answer for that. So, um Google will never show an auto complete that it doesn't have a strong uh serp to show for. So, um sometimes uh uh it like sometimes it can be um uh incomplete, but you know, getting getting back to sort of the the main one that I recommend is just all about knowing the customer, right? Um even just you know, if you don't have access to um transcripts or there's personally identifiable information, etc., you know, if you're if you're an SEO team, talk to your sales team, right? They know the objections that people have on a constant basis. They know the common deal breakers that they need to get answered. And uh if somebody's asking that to the person on the demo, they're definitely asking that to the LLM, as well. >> Now, we're going to move on to tactic five, which is uh something I I remember you talking about uh yeah, several months ago. I I And then it's become even more important. It's it's your brand truth framework. And really this is about like your reputation within LLM's, right? >> Yeah, exactly. So, um you know, when I I when I taught the the course for CXL last summer um on AEO did tremendously well. We had hundreds of students and I think we even got into the top 20 courses in terms of ratings. And uh in preparing for for that two sorry, three-hour session over two different uh the three hours in total over two sessions, it really forced me to consolidate my thinking about AEO into one place and it was such an such an amazing exercise. And uh you know, I'd been kind of dropping little things like my deal breaker detector on um uh on on AI notebook and like, you know, things like jobs to be done um generator and things like that. And I was kind of, you know, kind of getting close to this thesis about how much brand truth um representation work uh matters, but um you know, it's but I but I hadn't really consolidated in one place. Um but when when I taught the course, it it became very evident to me that um LLM is not only about non-branded search. So, think about um you know, the types of keywords that we bid on in Google Ads and whatnot or what people have traditionally searched to um discover different brands, but it's also just as much about accurate representation. So, like I mentioned before, if you have a SaaS company um that is criticized because it doesn't have a certain feature and then it ships that feature, well, you don't want to lose customers on something that you know, your product team has worked hard to build, but um uh you want to make sure that that is reflected in the LLM's as soon as possible, right? So, actively interrogating the LLM's um to see if they're keeping up with um you know all the latest you know developments from your software for example is super important so that you don't lose a customer out because the LLM doesn't think that you do something right so this is something that we focus on for for our clients and I think a lot of people have now caught on to this with the course almost being you know a full year now but understanding that you know accurate representation is super important and one of the ways that we're implementing this at the agency is you know having that source of truth which I've called the info page and regularly updating that to correct the misinformation that we're finding online kind of having a feed for our clients to do that and yeah credit to one of my coaching students David who helped us collaborate with this idea it was it's it's just a great way to have that single source of truth that the LLMs can depend on and clearly reference as you know your latest capabilities. >> Is this just like a what is type about us type page or or what kind of what kind of page are you thinking about or is this like an internal page? >> If you go to notebook.agency and then scroll down to the bottom there's a little link that says hey AI learn about us that is our that is our info page it's not LLMs.txt LLMs.txt is something totally different it's just an index page that LLMs can reference as a source of truth so having that being dynamic and updated is a fast way to teach the LLMs your latest capabilities. I also recommend doing that on your site but sometimes there's roadblocks sometimes there's different stakeholders who want to want to own a page and won't give you as much flexibility etc. Having that source of truth page um, can uh, can be an easy way to to add that kind of stuff. >> It is really fast. So, this is built specifically for for LLM's, is that right? >> Correct, yes. >> Okay, but it's different than LLM's.text. >> Yeah, it's just basically a source of truth page that has, you know, all of our testimonials, all of our key differentiators. Like, you have to understand like, I run a one-page website, right? So, we get a lot of our leads inbound. We haven't gone super deep with our strategy, but when people are asking about us, this page does get referenced. Um, so it's it's it's a single place where we, you know, update um, our different um, competitive advantages, our we even have like a patent that we own and stuff like that. And, you know, basically if if we notice anything online that's incorrect about our brand, um, it goes in here so that um, it's it's one single place. Um, I may also build out this site eventually a little bit more, um, but uh, yeah, it's a kind of a shoemaker's dilemma a little bit, but um, >> Yeah. >> if if you have uh, there's lots of people implementing this, um, you know, on a routine basis and uh, and you'll notice that it's just a very uh, clear and succinct way to get your um, key information uh, parsed by an LLM. >> Yeah, I've actually I remember when you posted this, I don't know if I came across it myself or you had posted it, but I was like, oh, this this makes a lot of sense. So, everyone should should definitely uh, uh, take take a look at that as well. >> Somebody's asking about um, pages, like sites that do this. Uh, check out respond.io. Uh, they have done this like quite extensively. Um, there's a lot of, yeah, a lot of our clients who do it as well. Um, and uh, and yeah, it's it's just a it's an efficient way to get, you know, all of your sort of up-to-date information out there. >> We're we're kind of hitting up on time here. We've already asked a lot of great questions in the chat, so so thank you for that. You can keep them coming here. Um two more tactics to go. Uh I really like this one, audit untouched pages for AEO potentials. Uh what do you mean by untouched pages? >> Yeah, so um think about, you know, your traditional uh SEO assets and how your team uh you know, controls those pages, right? So, think about, you know, your blog, specific subfolders, landing pages, comparison pages. Um the SEO team is, you know, kind of have these on lock. You may may have like a refresh cadence. You may have um uh workflows and air ops to update those things, right? But, sometimes what we notice when we actually dig into uh the LLM results is that there's a lot of pages that get cited that aren't necessarily SEO assets, right? Um so, things like your customer stories, your testimonials, uh your who it's for, um uh you know, pricing pages sometimes a little bit difficult to uh to get uh influence on from the SEO team. Um these pages are now SEO AEO assets. And uh one of the things that, you know, we've noticed with the clients that we work with is that AEO is much more cross-discipline now. And I think, you know, more of the enterprise teams, the the the, you know, the the SaaS teams of, you know, 200, 500 people, etc. These teams are starting to realize that it's more than just SEO that has um you know, uh a a role to play for this kind of stuff. Um so, we were working with the uh I was actually just on a consulting call yesterday uh with a client in the e-commerce fraud protection space. And uh we were analyzing a search journey um for their ICP in Google AI mode. Um we have this uh automation that uses Claude for Claude for Chrome and basically simulates an AI search for the ICP. And one of them one of the things that we noticed was that we were lacking a case study in a certain vertical because the competitor was getting recommended because they had this case study. So that flagged a need for that client to produce a case study in this certain vertical. Um, so that you know, if somebody's having that kind of a ICP conversation that you know, we've got something that shows that our e-commerce fraud protection software does really well for those folks. So you know, your SEO team suddenly is now the the team that highlights these opportunities and you know, expresses them to the rest of your org in terms of you know, what what we need to produce in order to win these different touchpoints. So with the with the that AI decision tree mapper, essentially I've got I do share this with my my coaching students. I haven't shared it on SEO notebook yet, but I may one day, we'll see, but essentially it's a long prompt that says here's the search query, here's the website that I want to see their performance for and and here's some information about the ICP. It goes to Google AI mode like all automated within the browser, starts with that keyword and then asks like 10 to 15 different follow-up questions and then produces a report based on that journey that it went through. And then it's that report which we like write code a little page that that that shows like the summary of all that stuff. That's where we can see you know, Claude's summary of where that where our client won, where our client dropped off, where you know, competitors were stronger and uh there's a prompt within that workflow that highlights um the the areas where you could have provided um better content and and and like I said, it's not just the SEO team that has to provide it. Um you know, talk to your uh product marketers, talk to your help center people who manage your help center. There's often times that you can nudge them to say, you know, what if we really had a page for uh a case study in this vertical, it would help us a lot. So, I really encourage your teams to work more cross-discipline and for the SEO teams to highlight those opportunities for others in the company. >> Yeah, yeah. I mean, we're seeing our docs get get cited quite a bit. I mean, our support docs, things like that, which SEOs don't don't usually always think about. Uh I love that point about customer stories as well. Um really great great tips there. Moving into the home stretch, um get your questions ready for Steve if you haven't already dropped them in there. Um you can uh yeah, we'll we'll try to answer them in our time that we have left, but number seven here is something I've been working working on as well. Repurpose declining blog content into video. Why are you seeing this be an advantage uh today and and why should teams think about using this to help some of their declining content? >> Yeah, for sure. So, um you know, with a lot of that informational content that we used to uh be able to rank with SEO, the clicks are just severely down because of AI overviews. Um but what we do notice is that um video is you know, perhaps a better way to answer some of those questions. So, if you have blog content that used to do well, you know, back before AI overviews and you know, got lots of traction and you know, maybe even converted uh or helped you build an email list or what what what have you. Um what will what we're seeing is a greater opportunity for videos to rank in those in those types of search queries versus textual blog content, which is just getting summarized. You know, chat GPT when you ask these types of questions, YouTube, you know, pops up basically like an embed. So, it's almost impossible to ignore. So, if you have what I would recommend for teams is if you have historical data on conversions from blogs that you know used to get clicks, you know, take a look at those and and start to think about, you know, can we make a video for that? Because you know, that person is still searching that thing. They're just reading it in AI review, but if there's a video, good chance that video gets cited, good chance that video gets like really prominently displayed in chat GPT, and that they'll go there for the answer because people are just so visual these days. People obviously love video, and and it could just be a better way to connect that customer with that answer. >> I'm also seeing a lot of video snippets in AI overviews as well, not just within chat GPT. Like if you if you click like show more or something like that, a lot of the videos are are popping up there, too. Um Yeah, and one other thing I wanted to mention here is like you can take your transcripts or I'm sorry, you can take your blog posts and turn those into like transcripts, uh things like that to help you write write some of that content. Um and then use Yeah, like what we talked about earlier, use the questions your sales team is getting from customers, use some some of those support docs, things like that to help you write um some video transcripts, too. We've seen a lot of success from that on our end, and and even you can set up automated workflows to help you with that as well. Um great questions coming in. Thanks Thanks, Steve. I love that last tactic. It's something that I'm working on, too. Um we're going to jump into Q&A here in a second. Uh seven really great tactics all through there. Really appreciate really appreciate that. Just to recap repurpose declining blog content into video, audit your untouched pages, build a brand truth framework, mine questions, not just use keyword tools, look at query fan outs to see where you're invisible, structure your content well into passages using thinking about tokens, and the number one was to think about optimizing for the whole reasoning journey. So, Steve, really appreciate you sharing all of that with us and lots of resources in the chat as well. I did want to just mention something about AirOps real quick here. A lot of people do provide LLM visibility and prompt tracking, then help you prioritize it. Where we're a little bit different is you can take action on that with some of the workflows, and that includes like content creation, refreshing your content. Steve mentioned that at the top. Updating, adding internal links is a project that I'm working on across your whole library in So, building AI workflows can help you do that at scale to help you do that across your whole library. And then the other thing though is to really ground it into your brand truth like like Steve was talking about. So, we have brand kits that you can describe what your product does, who your brand is, different product lines to then help inform that content creation and that refresh. And then to bring it all together is a content engineer who helps stitch those systems together because it's not just about a bunch of one-offs, it's really about creating a system and end-to-end system to help you appear in in AI search. So, our approach is that end-to-end system. You get your insights here, see how your pages are doing, you can take action on it, and then you see your impact with increases in visibility rate, share of voice, your position, your citation rate, measure that ROI, and then that governance is that brand kit layer. Having all of those uh grounded is important for um a systematic loop. And we've worked with a lot of great brands like Ramp, Carta, Duda, Lightspeed, Chime, Webflow using workflows uh like that to help get to these results. So, if you are interested in helping to turn your content into a system, feel free to drop us a line at growth@airtable.com to to see some examples of those workflows, examples of capturing mentions and citations, and how to influence that in into brand visibility. Um so, yes, growth@airtable.com. Just put webinar in the subject line. Um yeah, so we So, you can get more information about what AirOps can do. Uh and we know that we're getting close to time here, but we are going to answer a few questions. Um Oh, I also wanted to mention we do have a couple playbooks that I'll be sending your way, including an AI search playbook and then a bottom-funnel playbook from uh Lachlan Lewis as well. So, that'll be a nice gift for everybody to have. And I'll try to include a lot of the links that that Steve put in the chat because all of his SEO notebook uh links are are super helpful, too. Um now, we're going to get to the questions. Here we go. What I think people are always interested in metrics, and so I mentioned mention rate, citation rate, share of voice, uh you know, focusing on those in within LLMs. Anything else that you're suggesting your clients uh focus on as far as metrics go? >> For sure. I think um traffic and um site like citations and visits by the LLM. So, I'm going to post another resource right now in the channel, which is um our LLM traffic dashboard. Um so, you can basically just open this in any GA4 uh any Chrome profile that has a GA4 attached to it, select your um property from GA4, and it will start to pull uh your uh different LLM traffic uh stats. It'll also pull um your conversion rate, your time on site, uh first key event conversion rate I should mention, your time on site, pages per session, basically give you a a visibility dashboard on, you know, what's what's tracking in GA4. So, we find that really helpful. For our coaching students, we have a version of that that you can modify yourself and put your own brand, but to get started anybody can use that dashboard that's right there. And if you sign up to AI notebook .com, you also get that in your welcome email. >> Here's a question from Jordan that I haven't really I don't honestly know too much about myself. He said, "Steve, what's your perspective on search as an agent manager from Pichai's interview and how might it impact SEO and Geo in the open web in the next few years?" >> Yeah, so Yeah, yeah, there was a recent interview. I think the one thing that we should focus on in the and what we'll just begin to see in different content management systems is something called the web MCP. So, Google announced this in February as a proposed standard for how agents can interpret your website. So, if you think about like I have open claw or I have cloud cowork and it visits a page, it kind of has to take in the whole page and process it, you know, use a lot more tokens to understand, you know, this is the book demo button, this is the, you know, way to open this tab, etc. Web MCP is a way of essentially labeling the different buttons and actions that you can take on a website. There's two implementations. The most straightforward implementation that 95% of people will use is called the declarative implementation and think about this as just labels on different buttons and actions, forms, and stuff on your website that will make it very easy for an LLM to, let's say, fill out a demo form or, you know, start a free trial or whatever. Because what we're going to see more is, um, you know, not just users going to your website to do that research, but me saying to co-work, you know, go find me, uh, uh, the top five meal kit delivery, um, services in my area that have, you know, high protein options and also vegetarian options. Um, subscribe to a free trial, start the first one in week one, pause it, start the second one in week two, pause it, and like, you know, that kind of stuff. Like where an agent is going and doing all these things for you. Uh, we're going to see more and more of that. And, uh, and if we want to prime our websites to be, you know, very agent-friendly, um, you know, having that, uh, those those labels, um, will be very important. Um, you can also serve up specific, um, types of pages to agents. And, uh, I'll just drop a really quick nug, uh, that I haven't really talked about. Is, um, if you want to serve a specific type of page to your to the agent, you could even ask that agent, you know, how did you get here? Who did you research? Tell us a [snorts] little bit about your journey that you got in here. So, yeah. >> Wow. We're getting like bonus tactics. Uh, I have a a fun question that I was asking a few folks at at SEO Week just just kind of for fun is, do you think websites will disappear in in five years? Do you think they'll still be around? And or will agents kind of replace everything? >> For sure we we need to create websites for, um, but the question is that well, how will the surface for the user change, right? >> Uh, yeah. >> If you guys, uh, go to YouTube and search for Google Disco, um, that is a, uh, the Google's running, uh, they have to it's very like tight in terms of the the the focus group that's testing this. It's essentially uh, Google's uh, you know, they're testing it, so it's not for sure, but uh, it's a browser that even if if effectively creates a web page for your search experience. So, instead of, you know, seeing 10 blue links or seeing an LLM output, you know, and you're planning a trip, it basically just opens a canvas for you and says like, here's the little widget for flight information, here's a little widget for restaurants, here's a widget for, you know, reviews of different places, and you're looking at a canvas, not a serp, right? >> Mhm. >> I think in that case, that brand truth framework where you're checking for accurate information is still going to be super relevant. Um, you know, but the landscape of measurement for that uh, it's TBD, let's just say. >> I haven't seen that before, that kind of uh, tile-based thing. That'll be That'll be kind of >> Search for Search for Google Disco on YouTube. >> Google Disco. Well, thanks Steve for joining us today. You can find Steve on LinkedIn. I know there was a few more questions here that um, we didn't quite get to. Uh, feel free to to DM him that or just comment on some of his LinkedIn posts. I'm sure he would be happy to hear from you. You can also ask me any questions too on on LinkedIn. Uh, but find him at for coaching stevetoth.coach and then uh, notebook.agency as well. And um, yeah, Steve, really appreciate you being here this week. And then um, actually next week uh, we're going to have Asia Frost from HubSpot. She's going to be joining us to talk through some AEO secrets that that their research has turned up. And so, uh, you won't want to miss that. I'll be sending out some information on that as well. But um, thanks Steve, I really appreciate it. >> Yeah, it's always been a fun uh, fun to have uh, be a part of these uh, webinars with you, Josh. >> Yeah, yeah. Thanks so much, everybody. We will uh, see you next week with Asia Frost and in in too. So, have a good afternoon. Talk soon.
