---
author: eli-schwartz
title: "The 4 Pillars of AI Search: From Visibility to Pipeline"
video_id: lUelHDSsVro
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lUelHDSsVro
published: 2026-01-20
collected_on: 2026-06-18
---

Hey everybody, this is Josh Snooker. I am head of search marketing here at AirOps and I am super excited to be joined today by Eli Schwarz. Eli, how's it going? >> It's great to be here. I love doing AirOps webinars. >> We're going to be talking about the four pillars of AI search, what visibility looks like now, how that impacts your pipeline. Eli, why don't you tell us a little bit about yourself before we we jump into all the good stuff. >> I'm a guy kind of here to hear you talk about me. No, I'm kidding. My name is Eli Schwarz. I am a growth adviser. I get to work with really cool companies, help them craft their SEO strategies. About uh four years ago, I I wrote a book called ProductLled SEO, which we'll talk about today, is is uh I think it's still not obsolete. People keep buying the book and keep reaching out about it. And I am actually an angel investor in Aerops. So, I am a big fan and love everything Aerops is doing. And I I hope you guys will listen to everything Josh says about why you need to use Aerops and try out Aerops. Yeah, I really appreciate that. Um, and so of Eli, you're the way that you work with all these companies, all these different insights that you have is always really inspirational to me, too. So, I'm going to be taking a lot of notes. Got my notepad here. Everyone can see. There we go. And but if you are interested in turning um your search into a system, scan that QR code. We're going to talk about some repeatable steps that you can do for create creation, refresh, and then off-site visibility. Um, and you'll get a live demo including and learn how uh Deibo 2x their content velocity, a lot of examples of capturing mentions and citations, and then how Aerops off-site can help you influence that 85% of um, brand visibility because a lot of mentions, a lot of citations actually don't happen on your site. They are influenced by other sites as well. So, um, you can scan that QR code or email us at growthairops.com with webinar in the subject line. So that's growths.com webinar in the subject line for your um live demo. All right, now let us jump into our agenda slide. I was getting ahead of myself. Four things we're five things we're going to be talking about today. The surprising challenge of SEO. It may not actually be what you think it is, where you should focus your time and efforts. And then the meat of this is the four pillars of AI search. Four things you can walk away with that you can focus on with your team today. We're going to have plenty of time at the end for a Q&A. So, drop those in um the Q&A section. I have the chat open as well, so you can drop any questions there. But Eli is going to run through a lot of these points. Drop your questions in and then we will get back uh with some of those answers. So, um Eli, super excited for what you're going to share with us today. >> Me, too. One thing I want to promise everyone here's here's a going back to agenda. We're going to talk about the four pillars at Search. One thing I want to promise to everyone today, none of this is going to be obsolete. So, some of you are going to stumble upon this. Some of you going to stumb upon this recording in 6 months. All of this is still valid. I promise you that I will not give you any hacks or tweaks or anything that the next LM update, the next Google update is going to make obsolete. The way I approach everything around SEO is building for the long term. So, when I think of anything around SEO, I always think of it as a people challenge. And it's a people challenge on all fronts. It's a people challenge first and foremost. the people at at Google who are building these algorithms and the people at Anthropic and the people at OpenAI and the people at Perplexity and all of the LLMs. These are people the they are thinking through these challenges and problems as humans who go and do searches themselves. On the other side of that equation, there are the users. They are people too. And in order to really think about how people are doing these searches, we are people. So us marketers, we spend, let's say, eight hours a day being marketers and then we spend all the rest of those hours when we're not sleeping doing things, consuming things. So whenever I think about any SEO challenges, how would I go and find this? How am I going to discover the solution? Which engine am I going to use? Which device am I going to use? Which product am I going to use? And that's how I approach SEO. And then another people angle to this is if you're an in-house SEO at a company or an in-house marketer at a company or you're an agency and you're trying to influence people to do things, you don't influence them by throwing jargon at them. You don't influence them by showing how smart you can be. These are people too. So getting people along for the ride, that's also the people challenge. So I have met some amazing people at doing great SEO. They are really smart. They know more technical SEO than me, but they're not effective because they don't think about their end user. They don't think about their partners and collaborators in being able to ship things. So, they're stuck with notion docs and Google docs and great ideas that never get implemented. So, whenever I think of SEO, I want to just land on this that it's a people challenge. And of course, AEO is a people challenge because AEO is going to be an extension of search. >> I love that because a lot of folks don't ever think of it as like a people problem. always think of it as a technical problem. I've heard you say similar things before and I think it's always important to really reiterate that. >> Oh, absolutely. I my greatest successes in companies are when I can read the people that I'm working with and I realize what the challenge is. A lot of times there will be people that will be territorial around I don't want to make that change because titles belong to me. And then we can collaborate and we can trade and say well titles belong to you and I would like to appeal to your your good side and could you do a favor for me and change that title and like well why didn't you just ask that way even though there had been an open ticket for 9 months. So yes these are people challenges and I love approaching from that end as an outsider might look at this as wow all you did was ship a title change but inside we know that that title change took lots of coffee and lots of horse trading in order to be able to catch that point. Now, extending this into AI and AEO or GEO or whatever the current acronym is, it's not an SEO overhaul. Again, from the user perspective, this is not an SEO overhaul. This is a layout change. What this means is AI overviews for now, and I think AI mode is going to launch fully after uh Google IO on May 18th. But AI overviews is a bunch of content on top of a search result. And I think of of search mostly as Google. I know there are going to be people here uh who can drop in the comments that they haven't touched Google in a really long time. That's great. As long as 80% of the world is still using Google, it's a Google world. 20% can go somewhere else. None of you are doing SEO for Bing, even though Bing has a good, I don't know, 5 to 8% of the search market. We're still focusing on Google. I think for the most part, we'll probably continue focusing on Google until they lose that monopoly. But for now, it's Google. So, that's a layout change. There's AI overviews at the top. Now, let's say we move over to AI mode. That's also a layout change. So, instead of 10 results, we have 40 results, but it's still results. It's still search. And we'll dig into how that changes with AI. But again, it's not a fundamental change in algorithms. It's still Google crawling the web, understanding the web, but then changing the way they display it. The queries become prompts. They fan out into different things, but they're satisfying users. Again, the people challenge. The 10 blue links are not going to disappear. It's there's always going to be users that are looking for something. And whenever I think about what SEO is is in the future, it's users requesting information. Whether those users are requesting information in glasses, phones, watches, cars, I don't know, whatever it is that they're requesting information, they're going to go out and request information. For a long time, this is the way it looked. It will change, but they're still requesting information. And the search algorithms are still going to understand the internet. again for the most part understand the internet and give answers that will change. So many of those best practices on how you build for that remain the same but the nuance of course changes. So when we're thinking about how to do SEO or AEO you're really focusing on the human buyer. What is this human going to go and do and solve? And that's what we're going to walk through in these four pillars today. We're satisfying a human. We're not satisfying an LM. Showing up in an LM doesn't really do anything unless somehow you get a revenue share from that LM. So it's really about someone is going to do something and we want them to do something with us. So that's all we focus on. We don't focus on the algorithm. We don't focus on the prompts, the queries. It's all about that human buyer and the end state. So in that we're going to walk through what this SEO and AEO playbook look like in this world that has changed. And for the most part, I think I could have given this presentation 5 years ago. We're just now talking again about some nuance changes. It's not that AEO is SEO and SEO is AEO. It's an extension. It's something different. So the same way whatever it was 15 years ago, we didn't start having this title job title called mobile SEO. We now have SEO extends into this new layout. There are things that change, but many of the things that you're going to do will be very very similar. So in that end, we're going to talk about how you get into first understanding who that customer is. Number two, what is that customer trying to do? Number three, what do you create as an asset for that customer? And number four is how you can not manipulate but massage and make yourself the one if you are relevant to do better and to show up with these first three pillars because you're satisfying your end users. >> Let me stop you right there quick. >> Oh, go stop. Keep stopping me, Josh. I'm going to run off in tangents if you don't stop me. How I mean these make a lot of sense to me, but I'm just kind of wondering like how did you get to these four as being super essential uh for what you're about to walk through? >> I literally wrote a book on it. No, I'm kidding. It it these four are the always I I would always have focused on the first three. The one I'm adding on is the fourth. So, the way I've always thought about SEO is really first understanding the customer. And number two is figuring out what is it that the customer wants. And number three is what are you creating for that? The only thing I'd really add on for the AI world is number four. So for the last 15 years in SEO, I've always thought of these number three. >> He literally did write a book he mentioned at the top productled SEO. So everyone check it out, which is has a lot of these principles in it, but then also does focus on that that third pillar for sure. Thanks for that that overview. Okay, so let's let's talk about number one. So number one is really understanding the customer. So if we're putting ourselves in the customer's shoes, you want to identify what it is that the customer is trying to do. Now, for the longest time and and I'll refer back to my book, and it again, it's uh came out in 2021. So now it's actually 5 years old. So when I wrote the book, I was thinking of writing a book that would not be obsolete. Go. You can I don't care if you steal the book. It really doesn't benefit me. But these are the longer form. We're going to run through a lot of these slides, but the longer form version is on my book and then a shorter version might you can check out my my newsletter productso.com. A lot of these ideas I wrote into the fulll long blog posts, but what you want to do is you're understanding what is it that the user is trying to do. Again, put yourself in the user's shoes. When a user types a query, they don't necessarily want to buy something from you. So, I began my SEO career at a company that was uh focused on the vehicle research space. So, they were selling cars. Now, one of the keywords that this company ranked on and that I bought a ton of links for and did a lot of mostly gray but a little bit of black cat kind of things to rank on was the word cars that we we ranked very well on that within, you know, seven position seven to four. So, we we jumped around there and then we got hit by the Panda update and that went away. Now, today that would not be something I'd ever want to rank on because the word cars doesn't mean anything. It could be a movie. It could be pictures. it doesn't necessarily speak to any sort of intent. Now, when you're thinking about what is that you're trying to do for SEO, first put yourself in the user's shoes, what is the user looking for at this moment in time. Are they looking to solve a problem? Are they looking to learn information? Are they looking to buy something? So, one thing I I we have to call out here is, and this is some push back I get when I talk about this, is well, I don't know what my user is looking for. I don't think they would go to Google. If they're not, if your user is not going to be use a cert using a search engine to solve the problem that they have, then it's very very possible that there isn't an SEO strategy that you should deeply invest in. And I always get in trouble when I say this. So for B2B, I don't know that there's ever a pure SEO strategy that a company should invest a ton of money in versus other demand generation strategies because there's very few terms. So I began my consulting career seven years ago by working with Mix Panel which is an analytics tool and I did all the right things as a consultant and they ranked on all the right terms and it drove zero sales and the reason why is because it's an expensive very expensive and sticky product with a long sales cycle. So the fact that they ranked on something like analytics didn't mean that that was going to lead to a purchase. The fact that they didn't rank on something also didn't mean that it wasn't going to lead to a purchase. Because if you were doing your due diligence on what kind of analytics tool you were going to find, you were going to go to page 10 of Google to go and find that tool to make sure you had the right bake off and you spoke to all the right salespeople. So, if you're in a product or category that there is no search and you can't in you can't do the slide before, which is what is my user searching for, maybe don't invest a ton of money. I'm not saying don't do SEO. I'm not saying optimize your don't optimize your homepage. Certainly not saying don't have a website. I am saying that if you can't justify let's put a number at $10,000 a month at $120,000 a year. That might be what you pay a consultant. That might be what you pay a full-time employee. That might be anything you're investing in SEO. But if you can't envision how you're going to invest $120,000, $10,000 a month and get back $120,000, maybe don't invest $120,000. Maybe just do a little bit of SEO on your own and leave it right there. I know Josh, you want to ask something? >> No, I mean I think it's just amazing how like that disparity of like sometimes the resources without thinking it all the way through is a trap that a lot of companies can can fall into without knowing if there's really emotion there. >> And I push back all the time on on companies that come in as potential leads if they're very B2B and they can't find emotion that would make sense for SEO. There's a company that I consulted with a long time ago that is now a unicorn called Maintain X. they built a I guess a CMS or some sort of something for factories. If this is another example, not just B2B, but if your audience, let's say you're targeting a senior citizens who don't have smartphones, then you wouldn't necessarily have an SEO strategy that would be targeted at smartphones. So, really deeply understanding your users. So, in this case, Maintain X was targeting factory users. Their competition was paper. their ICP wasn't necessarily going to Google to solve their problem because they didn't know that a problem could be solved by Google. So it didn't matter how innovative their solution was, didn't matter how highly they ranked on the queries they thought their users would search for. It doesn't become an SEO channel just because you think it should be. So it's it's really important to think through this user journey before you dive deep or spend deep in SEO. So now that we understand the user a little bit, again, the best way to understand the user is to think of that user as yourself. Now let's flip over to the marketers. Now let's become ourselves and we understand this user. What are we going to create for them? So when you're thinking of this searcher, what is their intent when they do this? So do they have transactional intent? So are they searching for something that they're ready to go and buy or pay for or sign up or fill out a lead? It doesn't matter what your KPI is. There has to be some sort of end end goal of KPI. Now, if you are a media business, your end goal KPI is just getting that page view. And unfortunately, if you're in a media business that and you have evergreen content, that is precisely where LLMs are disrupting you. So that would beformational intent. If someone wanted to learn uh there's a million things I'm now doing with AI, like I don't even I don't even do like ask the prompts anymore. I just take pictures of all the things I want to do. The other day I want to clean something. I took a picture of what I want to clean. I took a picture of the the cleaning materials I was going to use and I just asked Gemini to tell me what to do. So that's anformational intent. There were answers to that on the internet. Google stole that from somewhere. They learned it from somewhere. I don't go there anymore. So if you're in anformational space, you're likely being disrupted. Now in last is if you're a someone is in a commercial space and they're actually looking to do something further that might be what we call midfunnel and that's where you can build a solution. So just to recap that. So transactional is I want to buy something. By the way, if anybody wants a, you know, dead giveaway that someone's doing using AI to create content, I don't know why, but AI loves writing examples about shoes. This is real. I'm real. Uh, let's talk through a shoes example. So, someone searches buy running shoes. That's transactional intent. You can write all the content you want. If you don't have Nike shoes or whatever shoes they're looking for right at that moment, that's not for you. Informational intent. Give me best practices on running. What kind of shoes fit my kind of build? That would likely go to an LLM. There's no reason to read that content on Adidas, Nike, On.com, whatever website has it. Commercial intent might be something around explain to me the differences between these three running shoes. Which ones are waterproof? Like again, that's deep. Now, you can create a product around that. And we'll we'll talk about that a little bit more, but that's where you're going to build something further in this AI age. >> Yeah. Could you go into that a little bit more because like we have a lot of enterprise B2B um teams that that use AIO ops and that follow us. Is there any type of content that um spec specifically on that decision stage or that transactional stage that people aren't really thinking about or like content types, videos, guides, whatever that that maybe work a little bit better than others? >> Yeah, absolutely. That's that's what this slide is right for. And you you just like read my mind. >> There we go. So when you break this down, more important than coming up with queries and prompts and fanouts and all the things that you're going to read about in social media and how people have hacked this whole system, user journeys. Envision this user journey. So at the top of this user journey is awareness. Sometimes it's called the problem. It really doesn't matter whether we call it a problem or not. It's just some sort of awareness which is I want to go and learn something more. So let's let's talk about we're going to have to talk about B2B SAS because that Josh, that's what you asked for. Even though I don't think it's a great example for AI and I think this is for this kind of search and I think this is what will be disrupted. But say you have this problem where you would like a content creation tool. You are tired. You're you don't like your content team anymore. You'd like to fire your content agency and now you're looking about the queries you might be looking for are something like cheap content agency. The solution you're looking for is not the tool that we're looking to market. So you're you're searching up on this content what how much should you pay for a content agency. Now is when we can disrupt them by saying well have you thought about using software instead of an agency. So that might be a piece of content which breaks down a comparison because remember this person is in the journey for a content agency. We want to flip them into a journey for SAS. So we need to take them away from that. Actually a better way of of explaining this is I worked with a company in a mental health space and they they made solutions therapy solutions for people with anxiety. Now there are many many ways to solve not solve but address anxiety that were not the therapy solution this company had. So one way might be drugs. Another way might be illegal drugs. Another way may be a meditation or running. But this company was offering therapy. So at the top of the funnel, anxiety just defining it didn't do anything for them. As we move them into middle of the funnel, that's when you can now explain the differences. So again, we can do this with software, you can do this with anxiety. This is the difference between illegal drugs and therapy. This is the difference between meditation and therapy. This is the difference between Aerops and other companies that we aren't going to name. So this is the funnel. The person is now discovering something. And the last piece which is really the high impact zone is now they've learned something further and they're doing things software is is less dense and you don't have as as fat of a tail but it might be Aerops versus another company. It might be the cost of Aerops it might be solutions around what Aerops does. But if you're we're getting to the mind of the users if the user at the top of the funnel they're just getting names suggested to them. This will also bring them to something that I call dark SEO which is just like dark social. I didn't invent this, which is now they they're learning about things from LLMs and the next step is not necessarily to click on it. The next step is, oh, I just learned about Aerops. I'm going to Google Aerops. Now, you have no idea that that direct visit or that search visit, branded search visit came because they first learned about Aerops in an LLM. So when we're creating this new SEO where we can get attribution which is now going to show up in search results and not in LMS it's really around this adoption stage which is the users ready to learn more. They're ready to go onto your website understand pricing understand support. So that's the place we call it midfunnel you can call it mid to bottom but that's now the place for SEO. Anything around top ofunnel is going to belong to the LLMs. >> We did have a question come in saying like is there any value still in in any top offunnel content? Um, specifically if you're trying to like build authority maybe in a certain topic area, >> probably not. If an LLM can completely replace the content, I was I just started working with a company in a real estate space and they were talking a lot about uh what it's like to move to a city, how safe a city is. None of that matters anymore. That is exactly the kind of content that will come out of an LLM. either an AI overview. If you Google how safe is New York City, that an AI overview will give you that, or that is very likely to be the kind of thing that a more educated user is going to go straight to LM, going straight to Chat GBT, straight to Gemini, straight to Claude and say, "Tell me about the safety of New York City." There's no reason for them to read content that you probably used an LLM to create on your website. So, in most cases, I would say top of funnel is not valuable anymore. The exception to that is if the top offunnel kind of content is necessary for the user journey on your website. So now let's say someone is thinking about moving to New York City and you are a moving website and they've decided that they want to come they want to move. They're going to use your services but they don't know about the safety of moving in the day versus the night. They don't know whether the moving truck needs to be locked. Now you want to have that content. It's not for SEO. It's for the user journey because if you drop them now there's a gap. Oh, I I'm going to order this uh pod and put in front of my house. Can I leave it unlocked? Can it be there during the day? If you don't have that answer on your website, they go to Google and they may find your competitor. They might click your competitor's ads. They might ask a friend on social or ask a friend offline and that friend will now suggest an alternative business. So keep once you have them on your website, you want to make sure you satisfy all aspects of the journey. If you get search traffic from that top of funnel, great. But you're no longer creating it with a an SEO KPI in mind anymore. The money you spend on creating that content likely will not be justified in SEO ROI. >> I I really I really like that answer because it's you may still need top ofunnel content. It may just be for the user journey and not for uh this the answer engines or for Google. Um so I think that's a really important distinction to keep in mind and and is a great answer for sure. >> All right. So now let's talk about how you identify the place where you're going to do SEO. So, we're being the user. You're thinking of yourself as the user. So, as you think about the journey, this is when you say, "Well, where is someone going to do a search that they might want to click a website result?" And not just, you know, LLM are fantastic at the follow-up questions, which is, "Would you like me to tell you more about X?" So, this is the place where where is the user going to do when they've learned this information? They've decided they want to buy the software. What are they going to look for at that point in time? It might be a branded search. You want to make sure you create content around branded search. It might be content of you versus your competitor. It might be products and services. Whatever it is, that's the point where you're going to identify the content that you need to create and build your SEO around that because that is when you're capturing again midfunnel or lowerfunnel users. I've met in my consulting career and before that I've met I don't know probably over 150 companies by now. Most companies I've met, even the largest companies in the world, don't do SEO efficiently. They do SEO just they they have content roadmaps and they create content. They're not really thinking about the users. So, if you're really thinking about your users and you're building content for your users, your competitors have the same users you have. So, if you think about those users, look at where your competitors are missing that angle and build towards it. There was a company I worked with, I don't want to give this one completely away, in a commoditized space that they sold the exact same marketplace product that everyone else was selling. And the value prop for users was price. Every one of their competitors focused on safety, security, the genuiness of it, but they all had the same exact same customer that cared about price. This customer, I had this customer pivot all of their SEO towards price, even using words like cheap and their competitors ignored that and they again they didn't need to rank higher than any of their competitors. They took a lot more of the traffic and took a lot more of the conversions. So, if you're understanding your users, don't worry about your competitors not getting this. Say, look, our us and our competitors have the same thing. We're going to build towards this gap that they're not building towards. Now that we understand who these users are, you want to think about the kind of asset you're going to create or improve upon. So, uh, well, I'll give a specific company example and now it's a few years old. It was on the opening slide. So, I worked with Tinder. So with with Tinder, their specific challenge was understanding and building a product for users that wanted to come into their funnel and then end up paying for their services or paying for their premium subscriptions because that's how they make money. So it wasn't about users just landing on the website. So that all of their efforts before I started working with them were around driving traffic. But working together, we came up with the angle where they were going to drive the most ROI, which is they needed people that were in a stage where they were going to use Tinder. Didn't matter whether they already had Tinder or not, cuz it's not always about acquisition. It's about driving them into a funnel. So they were in a stage where now they were going to use Tinder that was on their phone or download Tinder and then be in that funnel and potentially upgrade. In our research, we discovered that most of the people that were in that stage had moved locations. So when they moved locations, whether it was on travel or moving to a new city, they were more likely to go and look for dating in that city. So all of our SEO solutions were around that city change. So when you deeply understand your users and you understand their triggers for wanting to learn more, use more, read more, buy more, you now know what the gap is and you can build for that. With Tinder, it was programmatic content. With other companies I've worked with, it was not programmatic content. It was manually written content. Still others, it was video galleries. Whatever it is, you're satisfying a a user need. And this user need will always exist as long as we have a physical world. So many of the products that we use now, again, we you can go on LinkedIn and hear all about how AI is going to destroy jobs. It probably will take a lot of jobs, but as physical people, again, until we're plugged into the matrix, we're still going to go to restaurants. We're still going to buy cars. We're still going to go on airplanes and go on vacation. We're still going to go to hotels and put our heads on the pillow. So, all these things will continue happening. And these are all solutions that you can the funnel changes. So, you know, the hotel example, the way you discover a hotel now will change because of AI. You can go and put a prompt in and say, you know, give me the the best hotels in Miami with uh feather top beds that have indoor pools and uh you know, let me check out at 3 p.m. You'll put that in an AI prompt. You will find hotels like that. Some people will find hotels like that, but the raw number of people, the TAM of people that need to find a hotel does not change just because the journey changes. So, we're adapting our journey. We're building something towards that new user journey. So, really is about solving the user's job to be done >> because I think we said identify utility on the other page. And I I like what you just said there is like identify the user need, identify exactly kind of that pain point in the journey um to then help create content around solving that specific pain point. >> Yeah. So, when when you're thinking about what you're building, you're building something that satisfies the user. Now many of the things that I've built with um some really cool companies have because they're big have taken them a long time to build. So could take them 9 months to launch. So common question anybody that's an SEO consultant or at an agency you're always asked how long does SEO take and you waffle around and you say it depends. The longer SEO takes the more you've built of moat. So with a a company like Tinder, for example, their competitors of their same scale, which have the same again, it's a two-sided marketplace. You have people looking for each other, the their competitors have the same scale. If they're actually competitors, it would take them just as long to build something. So if it takes you a really long time to build, that's a moat that you now have ahead of your competitors. So building something, you want to build something that's fully functional, not a MVP, you're building something for a search user. Of course, there are ways you could test it to make sure that you've solved for your ICP, but you're building something real. You're building something that solves a solution that they can convert on. Most important is that it's it has to have some sort of conversion path. It has to be within the funnel. It's not just about driving eyeballs and driving content. When I consulted with Coinbase, our our biggest lift was in building something that was going to drive people to trade because that is how Coinbase made money. So we could have written a lot of content and it could have d had a you know gotten a lot of eyeballs and they could have used those eyeballs and then retargeted them around the internet but it didn't matter what we were building on SEO was to make sure that's in the user journey so it'll match a KPI which is conversion. So anything you're doing it has to be somewhere in the journey that the next step will be a KPI. Whatever that KPI is, it could even be signing up for your email list. And then the last piece on this is you want to layer in your best technical SEO best practices. I started with SEO is a people problem not a technical problem. Most companies don't have massive technical problems and you know the exception might be internal linking but titled that you're very unlikely to find huge problems that you can address with technical SEO. So it's really about making sure your technical SEO best practices is there. I'm actually publishing a blog post uh on my newsletter tomorrow product.seo.com with something I call thrice which is the way you can prioritize anything that you're suggesting to engineers to do. And thrice is you're scoring things based on time. So how long it would take you to do this. Headcount which is basically a proxy for how much it would cost you to do your SEO initiative. R is reach. So how many people will it impact? I is actually how much of an impact will it be? So like you know are you just like doing something that's an SEO best practice or will actually be quite impactful confidence. This is where a lot of you know SEO issues change. So you come in you say I here's my SEO ticket. I I demand that you follow this best practice and make sure our entire website has 301's versus 302s. And then you have to say how confident are you that the four things that came right before this are going to happen? And that's when you're like well um not not so much. Right? So like you want to really you're putting your your loy your everything on the line to say this is going to happen. So you want to score it there. And the last is effort. So how much effort will it take? So it's it's more than how much will it cost. Is is this going to be something that is incredibly hard and we have to test it or is this something that it's just a matter of just pushing go. So your your SEO best practices come at the end. Really important that you're building a great product for the users to use. >> The thrice was amazing. Um, so everyone be sure and jump into his subsc headcount is H. R was I'm forgetting it. >> Do you want me to give it? >> I'm going to give it I'm going to give the example I I used in the the Substack because I'm almost done writing it. So if you wanted to translate your website into another language. So say you want to translate it into French and I deliberately chose French. So I think French is the the fourth most popular language in the world. And you have to be realistic about what this means. So let let's go through this example. So time. So how long would it take to translate the website into French? A long time. It's not like push go and and title tag. You're I I've been a part of many translation projects. There are many many months. You have many people involved in it which is the headcount part of it. You need QA teams. You need language specialists. You need design specialists. I've you know been a part of translating things into uh Scandinavian languages and Dutch which have a lot more characters so it changes the entire design and your your header navigation needs to adjust for that when we're scoring on time that's very very time inensive scoring on headcount requires a lot of people reach so if I forget the exact number um I think it's 60 million so if we want to know how many people are in France and Canada so assuming we're a American-based company you're likely only targeting France and Canada. There are some other countries that speak French, but they're small and they may not have the same economic abilities that France and Canada have. So, we'll just consider French people in France and Canada. So, that's 60 million. So, your reach is 60 million versus let's say 350 million people in. Well, it has to be less, but let's just go with 60 million all French people in French speaking people in France and Canada. We're going to pretend that all pe all all senior citizens and babies also use the internet. So we don't break it down right there. And then the same for America would be 350 million. Again, all people are using the internet. So your reach is lower than if we were comparing to something that would affect everyone in the United States. Your impact, so it's highly impactful. Obviously, if you convert your entire site into a new language, that would be the highest score you could possibly give on impact. Your confidence, I'm very confident. I'm very confident of that impact. And that effort, well, you know, it just to sum that up, it's a crazy amount of effort. So now we're scoring this. So if you want to score converting your entire site into French versus um, you know, adding a new subdirectory, you likely would add the new subdirectory. So that's you're it's an honest way of taking all the ideas and again many companies I consult for, they present to me their SEO road map, which is usually just a Google sheet of a bunch of things that people have ideas on things to do. And then if you layer on something like Thrice, you can suddenly say, "Well, this is a fantastic idea to translate our entire site into French, but it's not going to launch for the next three years. None of you people are going to be here anymore, and it's super expensive. So, let's keep that on the back burner." >> That's a really great framework. I mean, it kind of reminds me of like scrum teams adding like story points and stuff like back in the day. So, like that's a really helpful way to like take a score, take a measure. Is the effort really worth this? Is the reach the effort worth it through all these different things that we're going to have to go through? So, time, headcount, reach, impact, confidence, effort. Uh, check that out in Eli's substack tomorrow. Thank you. >> And I score it 1 to 10. And like it it's not an exacting way to do it. You can score one one to three. Whatever way you want to do it. I like 1 to 10 because then you can have a seven out there versus, you know, it's either high, medium, low, like one. But it has to be quantitative. So, you can score it and then you're literally just adding it up. And that's your way of doing it. And I do this I I you know I did it years ago when I was at SurveyMonkey, but I do this whenever I come in and get these these road maps that are Google Sheets. I just have the team. We just throw it out there and then they're like, "Well, that was a really bad idea. Look, this would take us forever and we're going to forget this and never do this again." Like, you know, that is an example of this company that was going to translate everything into French because, you know, they did some research and well, French is easy and there's all these customers we're ignoring in Canada and, you know, once we score it like that, they drop it. All right. So, now we've built something. Now, we're going to get into the place where AI matters a little bit more. So, AO matters a little bit more. So, when I think of brand visibility, and I've thought of it like this for a very long time, despite uh buying back links being a thing and purchasing backlinks in in past lives. So, when you think about brand visibility, I much prefer that people work with PR agencies that are getting visibility versus buying links. So, when you work with a PR agency, you're getting mentions. And one thing to keep in mind, and I I'll mention Reddit on the next slide, one thing to keep in mind with anything around social media. So Reddit as an example, that's the one everyone loves. Reddit is selling all their data to Google and OpenAI. So they're not just giving here's your corpus and let's crawl all of Reddit. They're actually giving everything Reddit has, which means they can see if a comment was deleted because it was spam. They can see if you've submitted the same URL 16 times in different subreddits and kept giving up. They can see if an account was deleted. So, when you're thinking about getting awareness and building a brand, PR makes the most sense because you're getting visibility. We live in a world where LLMs are creating content from scratch. So, you don't necessarily need a backlink with an href anymore. You need a mention. So, the c the LLMs and Google, of course, are reading content. One thing I learned from John Mueller a couple months ago at the I forget they called the Zurich search summit or Google the Google search uh meetup. He said that they Google is actually using video data from the Google Maps cars. So I don't know how they use the data, but it actually makes a lot of sense that Google is using everything they could possibly access. So maybe they're using the Google Maps, the Google car data of they're driving by an address and they see that it is just a mailbox and it's not real. So they can assess that maybe your brand isn't as big as you think it is. Or maybe they're using another way. they drive by and they see long lines of people or you know we all know that Google has that piece of Google maps where it says this stores or this restaurant is busy right now. So all of that is feeding brand signals in to how real you are. So when you think about what a brand is, it's holistic. It's not a domain authority. It's how many people are talking about it. How many people visit a location? How many mentions are you getting? Where are you getting mentioned? The best way of thinking about this is as a human we absorb thousands of different metrics of what's a good brand. Like how do we know that Nike as an example? I'm going to keep shoes because we're going to pretend this is AI, but how do we know that Nike is a good brand and some knockoff you find on on AliExpress is not a good brand? Well, there are a lot of signals we look at subconsciously you're like the the black color on Nike is is strong and the swoosh that looks legit and it the way it pops out in the picture looks legit. Whereas you look at the other knockoff and you're like I something about the swoosh is not angled correctly. You can't even pinpoint it. And that's what LM and AI is trying to do. to try and absorb all of those for us subconscious for them it's conscious those signals to the point where probably it would be very hard to reverse engineer why an LLM chose something and that's where LLMs are likely going to go. So if you want to the most visibility in AI, skip all of the spammy scammy steps and go directly to being the brand. Satisfy customers. So in the past you could get yourself to the top of Google by following SEO best practices or implementing things that others are not doing or optimizing or all the things we did around SEO. But when it comes to AI, they're making decisions. If you don't belong there, then you might there might be things you can get there on a short term, but it likely will not last when AI does the thing it's going to do. So, when you're coming this trying to become this brand, you want to really be where you're going to be in search results. So, if you know there's all this talk, and I'm not going to now I'm not going to weigh into like is SEO and AEO the exact same thing, but you're very unlikely to find a brand that does well in AI that doesn't already do well in search. They are different things. The queries are different. So, say you're searching for best shoes. If you're not finding the best shoe store and you're not finding Nike and you're not finding Adidas and you're not finding Puma, that's an SEO problem. If you are finding it, then likely that would translate into AI visibility. ChatGBT is using Google search crawler or using Google search data. Google of course is using Google search data. So, it does translate into that. So, the best way to make sure you're best positioned for AI is to do everything you can around SEO. You want to leverage any review platforms you can because that's what brands do. So if you didn't know anything about SEO, that's what you do. You want to make sure everyone knows about you and everyone is talking about you. When it comes to anything around schema and things around the edges, there may be things that you could do to help your brand appear better when a from a thrice concept. None of these things are a big deal. So just do them. It will it give you an edge or will it not give you an edge? Doesn't really matter because it's easy to implement. So, when you're looking to deliberately generate citations by being a real brand, you want to make sure you're doing marketing. You're looking at where the LLMs are sourcing any data. I know for myself whenever I I talk to a potential client and they tell me they found me on Chat GBT, I try to get their exact prompt. I'm always finding that it's because I was listed on some website that I didn't think would matter. So if you're discovering these things, it should change the way you want to go and build citation. Should change the way you want to make sure you're visible. Make sure that you are distinct. This is an SEO basis. Like everything on this slide is the same thing I would do for SEO. So make sure you're distinct. Make sure that you can be found. Your website clearly explains what you are. Your website is the best way that you can explain what your products and services are. the absolutely make sure your pricing is on your site because if it's not on your site, the LLMs are going to learn it from someone else's site. You want to create the kind of content that LLMs are looking for. They're not looking for long form content anymore the way that traditional SEO is. They're looking for basic answers. And when it comes to schema, again, it may or may not do it, but break it down and think about this is something I can label to explain what I do or not. And I I think this is the last slide. So, when it comes to monitoring prompts and monitoring what you're supposed to be doing, Aerops does it. Strongly recommend that you use AirOps, of course, but a lot of what you're going to be doing potentially doesn't matter because you can't do anything about it and you don't know whether it's accurate or not. The best way to know if you're achieving your mark is to use your own prompts. Be your own customer. Go to all the LLMs, whatever it is that you do. If you make pizza and you search the best pizza in New York City and you're not showing up as a as a suggestion there, that's something that you know you failed at. Now, with traditional SEO, we always had long list of keywords. Best pizza NYC, best pizza New York City, best pizza Lower East Side. You don't need to do that anymore. It's about being the best pizza. So, you want to go back and think about how you can make sure people know that you're the best pizza. So, do all your best practices on marketing and making of course first product. If you're not the best pizza, you shouldn't be the best pizza. But first do everything around product and then move marketing. Make sure that again if you ignored everything around SEO, everything around AEO, what is it that you would do to make sure everyone knew you existed? And the last thing is really don't overindex on anything that you think is working. So you'll go on LinkedIn and it'll say Reddit is working well and getting me into LLMs and then you go do that and then that changes. You've built on quicksand. So there is no hack. I promised that this would this deck would not be obsolete in six months. I don't think there's a hack. The best thing you can do is really create a good business and make sure that your business is visible to the LMS and they understand what it is that you do and do the right things by customers. And if you don't know what the right things by customers are, that's that's not an SEO and AEO problem. So do those right things and make sure the LLMs understand what it is that you do. And to close with this, I said this so many times, but you are the user. you are your own customer. And if you're not your own customer, you have to figure out how to think like your own customer. So if I think AEO is more of a brand channel than an SEO channel. So you're always going to do SEO. AO is a brand channel because again, if you're not showing up in SEO, you're likely not going to show up in AEO. So the way you get layered in, so you've done your SEO, the way you you show up more because you are the great brand is by creating brand visibility. Google, I don't think, is going to go anywhere. So we can really focus most of our efforts around Google. And I think as long as they have anything more than 80% market share, you can probably ignore the rest. But again, we're being the user. If your entire user base uses chatbt or your entire user base uses deepseeek, that's what you want to do. We're focusing on the user. This is not again not about best practices. This will all take a really long time. I think chatbt has been out for three and a half years now and many people are still just doing regular Google searches. And the the last thing, I didn't talk about this at all, but the way I think about agents are they are representations of users. So they're smarter searchers, they're smarter people. And if you do the best SEO and do the best brand visibility, you do the best AEO nuance around the edges, you're doing the best SEO that you can for those agents, too, because they're just they're almost digital executive assistants of humans. >> That was amazing. Uh we had so much to go through there. Love the user journey. Love Thrice. Love that point about agents there at the end. So, if you do have questions about that, like coming in, we're going to give Eli a little bit of a breather here. We got about like 10 minutes left, so we're going to be taking some questions uh that are coming in. But, if you are interested in turning um search into a system, how can you really start to take advantage of uh mentions, citations, all of those things? Increase your content velocity. I also dropped a line about prompt mining in here. How do you find those questions that your cons customers are asking and tracking those prompts, creating content around that? Um, book a demo with Aerops at growthairops.com. We'll happy to set you up or you can scan that email. Um, I'm sorry, scan that QR code right there. Uh, you'll see a lot of examples of great companies um, utilizing AirOps and how they're getting results from it. So, Eli, lots of great stuff in there. We have some uh, questions coming in. If you want to flip over to to the next slide there. Carrie asked this question which I thought was was really interesting like how have she asked what is the best marketing company near me? What is AI looking at when it answers that? And so maybe that's a little bit more of just like a local search question and and how some of those things have changed. >> So that that's great. I think those are the places people are spamming right now because marketing companies know how to do this and there are things you can do effectively now that get you to show up and depends what near me is. So if you are in New York, much harder. If you are uh in a smaller metro area, then it could potentially be easier if you're competing with less companies. So you can look at where wherever you can see always see the citations. That's actually the best thing about LMS is it shows you where they're learning from. Shows you why it's recommending these companies to show up as best marketing companies. So make sure that you show up in the exact same place. I think ultimately best marketing company near me will end up being like best pizza near me. It will be very unlikely that you're going to do an LLM search and the recommendations won't be oh yeah that's exactly who I would have put as the top five pizza shops near me. So that's what it's going to be like pizza shops like it's it's pulling in everything around again food specifically everything around Google reviews everything around Yelp reviews everything around location data I don't know any other social media and that's how it learns that list marketing companies again marketing we litter the world the internet with things saying that we're the best so it'll be harder but I think eventually it'll get there so the best way to show up as best marketing company near me I think is just to be the best marketing company and then the engines will Um Samantha had another question here. What are some ways that you like to do customer journey research? I did mention like the prompt mining. You could look at your sales calls. You could look at support tickets. Uh relevant subreddits, those type of things. Maybe some customer interviews. Anything else you might suggest there for uh user journey and customer journey research? >> I I mean you mentioned the customer interviews. I really love free form customer interviews. You you just learn so much and and again I think most companies are doing this wrong. So, I I recently talked to a company that was in the insurance space and they're an affiliate, but a very large affiliate, and they were they're doing SEO for just insurance keywords. And I said, "Who's your customer?" They're like, "Everyone that needs insurance." And I kept asking, and I'm like, "Do you have any brand data? Um, is there a city that you perform better?" And they're like, "No, we do great in every city." And finally, I don't remember what the question was. They're like, "Oh, yeah. Here's our dashboard, which shows like our conversions." And I took one look at it. I was like, "Wow, your best customer segment, which what I was trying to get at from you, is females in their 30s who live in large metropolitan areas, which like represented like 60% of their conversions. So, at that point, why would they do anything else?" So, then it really becomes like, why are females in their 30s in metro areas? Why what is our product doing for them that they really want? And then you just go deeper down that funnel. It's like, what? Like, are they better at showing price? Is that the concern? Whatever it is. So free form customer interviews. Why did you choose us? What like what's your biggest concern? Did you talk to our competitors? Why did you not like your competitors? Like again, those interviews will just be so insightful and you they don't need to be, you know, statistically significant surveys. Just talk to 10 customers. You'll get great ideas. >> Um we had a really good question from Rahul here. Um how really it's about success metrics, which I'm sure you get asked a lot about. He says, "In a multi-stage funnel journey, someone maybe discovers tofu content on an LLM and then they Google you and then they go to the brand. Like, are we looking at mentions? Are we looking at impressions? Are we looking at citations or raw traffic numbers?" Like, what are some of the things that you're encouraging teams to look at? Now, >> I don't think there's a really a good way to find out what's happening in LMS. The LMS are not giving that information. So, if you're getting citations, you don't know. If you're getting mentions, you don't know. I the best thing that you could really look at is um there was a company I was I was working with was having a really hard time with attribution. They lost a ton of their SEO traffic, but then we looked at all their data and their direct traffic had spiked up by 20% as AI overviews rolled out and continued to go up. So SEO teams out there maybe start taking credit for direct traffic. No one else is taking credit for it. So you can point out like the LLMs have taken SEO traffic and now they've given direct over to our brand. For whatever reason, it's direct. Maybe it's like people doing direct typins or maybe the cookies have dropped, whatever it is, but it will show up somewhere else. But I I wouldn't get hung up on anything around LLMs and citations because you just don't know the data. >> Top ofunnel content, a lot of us may have a backlog of top ofunnel content from the past. Should we like prune that out? Should we delete it? Um kind of what should we do with that if it's not as important? Does it help us build topical authority at all? >> I don't think so. I I think it's better. Interestingly enough, SEO and AEO is actually more efficient now with content on other people's websites than your own website. That's how you get topical authority because other people are talking about you and mentioning. I think about everything SEO wise from a an economic standpoint. So, if it cost you nothing to publish that content, it probably doesn't hurt you. But if you have this backlog of content and you're going to go and spend $500 per piece of content, you're probably not going to make back that $500. So, I wouldn't I would take that $500 and direct it to something that's more efficient. And I I know it's sacrilegious to say this when we talk about SEO, but if your LTV on paid traffic on $500 is $2,000, give it to paid. And hopefully they appreciate that and they give you back some credit when it's time. But I would not write to content just because. >> I think this is a great question to follow up on that from Nick. He says, "For SAS companies who may have focused on the middle funnel and bottom funnel, some of even that like comparisons have shifted to LLMs. Um, do you think it's still worth like coming up with those pages on your own? I mean, I have a couple thoughts, but we'd be interested to hear what you have to say. >> Again, when we we think about this from an economic standpoint, if you're not in the most crowded space ever, then these are, you know, three to four pages. So, create them. And there's two reasons I'd really create them. One is it will become one of the sources the LLMs use to make their own comparisons. So, at least you've put it out there. >> And number two, I mentioned this earlier, it's a part of the journey. So if someone's on aerops.com and now they're like, "Well, I want to compare Aerops to one of the competitors." If you don't have that comparison on your site, that's when they go to Google and that's when they find those other companies. So it may not be SEO content, but it is user content. It belongs on the website. >> Yeah. The only thing I would add there is that your product is probably changing a lot and especially in these like highpaced industries that happens like enterprise um SAS brands for sure where there's a lot of changes, a lot of product updates, a lot of product feature updates. So the models are then going to be like going live web searches to like then find some of these things uh to help them stay up to date. And we found a lot of our own research that shows that fresh content is more likely to get cited uh a lot often a lot more often. So, so that's something to consider as well. Um, we're going to be wrapping up here. Eli, thank you so much. If you want to maybe go to the next slide here for a minute. I also wanted to offer speaking of like middle funnel and bottom funnel content. We did a really great webinar with Lache Lewis um a few weeks ago. She brought some really great insights. I'll be sending this out to everybody in our recap. Uh so take a look for that along with the insights from Eli. Lots of great stuff here today. And then in a couple weeks going to our next slide, we have Steve Toth joining us. Uh this will be on April 29th and he's going to be going over he's really good at like the screen share super specific tactics that you can be sharing and doing. So he's going to be going over highle topics or tactics for modern SEO teams. Uh don't miss that out. Don't miss out on that. He always has lots of great stuff to offer just like our guest today. Eli, thanks so much for joining us. I'm looking forward to your Substack tomorrow on Thrice. Uh, it's a must readad, must subscribe. And if you have any more questions about Aerops or would like to find out about what we're up to over here, email us at growthairops.com. Put webinar in the subject line. Be happy to walk you through what a lot of other great companies are doing to help improve their AI search and visibility. Eli, thanks so much for the time today. I really appreciated it. >> Thanks for having me. It's always great to be here. >> Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Everyone, we'll see you in a few weeks with Steve Toth. Thank you so much. We'll chat soon.
